## Deep Dive into Functions

- Function Statement or Function Declaration 
When a function is simply declared it is known as function statement. 
```js
function a(){
    console.log('A is callled'); 
}
```
This way of creating function is known as function statement. 

- Function Expression
Functions can be assigned to a variable or an identifier. And this is known as a Function Expression. 
```js
var b = function a(){
    console.log('A is callled'); 
}
b();
```
This way of creating function is known as function expression.
_Difference between Function statement and Function expression is hoisting. Since b becomes a variable and variables are partially hoisted it cannot be hoisted in case of function expression whereas it can be done in function statement._


- Anonymous Functions
Anonymous Functions are used when functions are needed to be used as value. They are same as Function statement but used as a value. 
```js
let a = 2 + function (){
  return 4;
}()
console.log(a); // prints 6 
```
- Named Function Expression
Name given to function in a function Expression is known as Named Function Expression.
```js
var b = function a(){
    console.log('A is callled'); 
}
```

- First Class Functions 
The ability to use functions as values/arguments or return a function is known as First class Functions. 
```js
function add(a,b){
    return a+b;
}

add(function (){
    return 3
}(), 6); // Here we are passing an anonymous function as argument which is returnning 3 // 9

// This is first class Function
```

- Higher Order Functions 
In Javascript, functions can be assigned to variables in the same way that strings or arrays can. They can be passed into other functions as parameters or returned from them as well. A “higher-order function” is a function that accepts functions as parameters and/or returns a function.

- Pure Functions
Pure Function is a function (a block of code ) that always returns the same result if the same arguments are passed. It does not depend on any state, or data change during a program’s execution rather it only depends on its input arguments.

Also a pure function does not produce any observable side effects such as network requests or data mutation etc.

The below JavaScript Function is an example:
```js
function calculateGST( productPrice ) {
    return productPrice * 0.05;
}
```
