# Javascript Fundamentals
## The script tag
JavaScript programs can be inserted almost anywhere into an HTML document using the ```<script>``` tag. 
```HTML
<!DOCTYPE HTML>
<html>

<body>

  <p>Before the script...</p>

  <script>
    alert( 'Hello, world!' );
  </script>

  <p>...After the script.</p>

</body>

</html>
```

- The ```<script>``` tag contains JavaScript code which is automatically executed when the browser processes the tag.

## Modern markup
The ```<script>``` tag has a few attributes that are rarely used nowadays but can still be found in old code:

The type attribute: ```<script type= "">```
The old HTML standard, HTML4, required a script to have a type. Usually it was type="text/javascript". It’s not required anymore. Also, the modern HTML standard totally changed the meaning of this attribute. Now, it can be used for JavaScript modules. 

The language attribute: ```<script language= "">```
This attribute was meant to show the language of the script. This attribute no longer makes sense because JavaScript is the default language. There is no need to use it.

## External Scripts
If we have a lot of JavaScript code, we can put it into a separate file.
Script files are attached to HTML with the src attribute:
```JS
<script src="/path/to/script.js"></script>
``` 
Here, ```/path/to/script.js``` is an absolute path to the script from the site root. One can also provide a relative path from the current page. For instance, ```src="script.js"``` would mean a file ```"script.js"``` in the current folder.

We can give a full URL as well. For instance:
```JS
<script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/lodash.js/4.17.11/lodash.js"></script>
```
 <span style="color:yellow; font-size: 20px"> ⚠ </span> If src is set, the script content is ignored.


 ## The modern mode, "use strict"

 The directive looks like a string: ```"use strict"``` or ```'use strict'```. When it is located at the top of a script, the whole script works the “modern” way.

 <span style="color:yellow; font-size: 20px"> ⚠ </span> Ensure that “use strict” is at the top

<span style="color:yellow;"> Should we “use strict”?  
Modern JavaScript supports “classes” and “modules” – advanced language structures, that enable use strict automatically. So we don’t need to add the "use strict" directive, if we use them.

## Variables

A variable is a “named storage” for data. We can use variables to store goodies, visitors, and other data.
To create a variable in JavaScript, use the ```let``` keyword.

- #### Variable naming
There are two limitations on variable names in JavaScript:

1. The name must contain only letters, digits, or the symbols $ and _.
2. The first character must not be a digit.

## Constants
To declare a constant (unchanging) variable, use const instead of let:
```JS
const myBirthday = '18.04.1982';
```

constants cannot be reassigned.

## Data Types
There are eight basic data types in JavaScript. 
We can put any type in a variable. For example, a variable can at one moment be a string and then store a number:
```
// no error
let message = "hello";
message = 123456;
```
Programming languages that allow such things, such as JavaScript, are called “dynamically typed”, meaning that there exist data types, but variables are not bound to any of them.

- ### Numbers
 The number type represents both integer and floating point numbers.
 Besides regular numbers, there are so-called “special numeric values” which also belong to this data type: Infinity, -Infinity and NaN.

- ### BigInt
In JavaScript, the “number” type cannot represent integer values larger than (253-1) (that’s 9007199254740991), or less than -(253-1) for negatives. It’s a technical limitation caused by their internal representation.

BigInt type was recently added to the language to represent integers of arbitrary length.
A BigInt value is created by appending n to the end of an integer:
```JS
// the "n" at the end means it's a BigInt
const bigInt = 1234567890123456789012345678901234567890n;
```

- ### String
A string in JavaScript must be surrounded by quotes.
```JS
let str = "Hello";
let str2 = 'Single quotes are ok too';
let phrase = `can embed another ${str}`;
```
In JavaScript, there are 3 types of quotes.

Double quotes: "Hello".
Single quotes: 'Hello'.
Backticks: `Hello`.
Double and single quotes are “simple” quotes. There’s practically no difference between them in JavaScript.

Backticks are “extended functionality” quotes. They allow us to embed variables and expressions into a string by wrapping them in ${…}, for example:
```JS
let name = "John";

// embed a variable
alert( `Hello, ${name}!` ); // Hello, John!

// embed an expression
alert( `the result is ${1 + 2}` ); // the result is 3
```
- ### Boolean (logical type)
The boolean type has only two values: ```true``` and ```false```.

This type is commonly used to store yes/no values: true means “yes, correct”, and false means “no, incorrect”.

- ### The “null” value
The special null value does not belong to any of the types described above.

It forms a separate type of its own which contains only the null value:
```JS
let age = null;
```
In JavaScript, null is not a “reference to a non-existing object” or a “null pointer” like in some other languages.

It’s just a special value which represents “nothing”, “empty” or “value unknown”.

The code above states that age is unknown.

- ### The “undefined” value
The special value undefined also stands apart. It makes a type of its own, just like null.
The meaning of undefined is “value is not assigned”.

If a variable is declared, but not assigned, then its value is undefined:
```JS
let age;

alert(age); // shows "undefined"
```

- ### Objects and Symbols
The object type is special.

All other types are called “primitive” because their values can contain only a single thing (be it a string or a number or whatever). In contrast, objects are used to store collections of data and more complex entities.

Being that important, objects deserve a special treatment. 

The symbol type is used to create unique identifiers for objects. 

## Interaction: alert, prompt, confirm

- ### alert
This one we’ve seen already. It shows a message and waits for the user to press “OK”.

For example:
```JS
alert("Hello");
```
The mini-window with the message is called a modal window. The word “modal” means that the visitor can’t interact with the rest of the page, press other buttons, etc, until they have dealt with the window.

- ### prompt
The function prompt accepts two arguments:
```JS
result = prompt(title, [default]);
```
It shows a modal window with a text message, an input field for the visitor, and the buttons OK/Cancel.

**title**
The text to show the visitor.

**default**
An optional second parameter, the initial value for the input field.

- ### confirm
The syntax:
```JS
result = confirm(question);
```
The function confirm shows a modal window with a question and two buttons: OK and Cancel.

The result is true if OK is pressed and false otherwise.

For example:
```JS
let isBoss = confirm("Are you the boss?");

alert( isBoss ); // true if OK is pressed

```
## Type Conversions

Most of the times things are implicitly converted to fit the right types.
But sometimes we need to explicitly convert types. 
```JS
const numberAsString = String(123); //"123"
const booleanAsNumber = Number(true); //1
const stringAsNumber = Number("123"); // 123
```

## Basic Operators, Maths
**Operand** Operands are those on which operators are applied on.  

**Unary** - Operator which works only one operand.  
 Example 
 ```JS
 const count = 0 ;
 count++;
 ```

  - ### Maths
The following math operations are supported:

Addition +,  
Subtraction -,  
Multiplication *,  
Division /,  
Remainder %,  
Exponentiation **  -> Raises to power ``` a ** b ```

 - ### Notes 
 If any of the operand is a string then other value becomes string two while concatenating.
 ```JS
 const result = '1' + 1 ;// 11
 ```

 The binary ```+``` is the only operator that supports strings in such a way. Other arithmetic operators work only with numbers and always convert their operands to numbers.

Here’s the demo for subtraction and division:
```JS
alert( 6 - '2' ); // 4, converts '2' to a number
alert( '6' / '2' ); // 3, converts both operands to numbers
```

If ```+``` is put infront of a number it doesn't affect it but putting it before a string makes that string a number.
```JS
const stringNumber = "26"
+stringNumber; // 26
```
## Comparisons

Strings are compared lexicographically.

## Ternary Operator

```
let result = (condition) ? true : false ;
let isageGreaterThanEighteen = ( age > 18) ? true : false

```

Also we can write some complex nested ternary operators 
```JS
let result = (age > 18) ? true : 
             (age < 15) ? true :
             (age < 10) ? true : undefined
```
## Nullish coalescing operator '??'

The nullish coalescing operator is written as two question marks ??.  
The result of ```a ?? b``` is:
```JS 
    if a is defined, then a,
    if a isn’t defined, then b.
```
In other words, ```??``` returns the first argument if it’s not ```null/undefined```. Otherwise, the second one.

## Loops

### Breaking the loops  
Use ```break``` to come out of loop anytime.
```
while(i){
  // do something
  if(i == someValue) {
    break;
  }
}
```

### Continue to the next iteration
The continue directive is a “lighter version” of break. It doesn’t stop the whole loop. Instead, it stops the current iteration and forces the loop to start a new one (if the condition allows).

We can use it if we’re done with the current iteration and would like to move on to the next one.

The loop below uses continue to output only odd values:
```JS
for (let i = 0; i < 10; i++) {

  // if true, skip the remaining part of the body
  if (i % 2 == 0) continue;

  alert(i); // 1, then 3, 5, 7, 9
}
```

### Labels for break/continue
Sometimes we need to break out from multiple nested loops at once.

For example, in the code below we loop over i and j, prompting for the coordinates (i, j) from (0,0) to (2,2):
```JS
for (let i = 0; i < 3; i++) {

  for (let j = 0; j < 3; j++) {

    let input = prompt(`Value at coords (${i},${j})`, '');

    // what if we want to exit from here to Done (below)?
  }
}

alert('Done!');

```
We need a way to stop the process if the user cancels the input.

The ordinary break after input would only break the inner loop. That’s not sufficient – labels, come to the rescue!

A label is an identifier with a colon before a loop:

labelName: for (...) {
  ...
}
The break <labelName> statement in the loop below breaks out to the label:
```JS
outer: for (let i = 0; i < 3; i++) {

  for (let j = 0; j < 3; j++) {

    let input = prompt(`Value at coords (${i},${j})`, '');

    // if an empty string or canceled, then break out of both loops
    if (!input) break outer; // (*)

    // do something with the value...
  }
}
alert('Done!');
```
In the code above, break outer looks upwards for the label named outer and breaks out of that loop.

So the control goes straight from (*) to alert('Done!').


### Functions 

Ways of defining a function: 
```JS
function someFunction(arg) {
  //do something
}

let SomeFunction2 = function() {
  // do something
}

let var1 = someFunction;

var1();
someFunction2();
```

## CallBack Functions
```js
function ask(question, yes, no) {
  if (confirm(question)) yes()
  else no();
}

function showOk() {
  alert( "You agreed." );
}

function showCancel() {
  alert( "You canceled the execution." );
}

// usage: functions showOk, showCancel are passed as arguments to ask
ask("Do you agree?", showOk, showCancel);
```
The idea is that we pass a function and expect it to be “called back” later if necessary. In our case, showOk becomes the callback for “yes” answer, and showCancel for “no” answer.

We can use Function Expressions to write the same function much shorter:
```js
function ask(question, yes, no) {
  if (confirm(question)) yes()
  else no();
}

ask(
  "Do you agree?",
  function() { alert("You agreed."); },
  function() { alert("You canceled the execution."); }
);
```

## Arrow Functions 

```JS
let a = () => {

}
//or

someFunction(var1, () => {
  //do something
})
```