# Objects
Objects are used to store keyed collections of various data and more complex entities.  
An object can be created with figure brackets {…} with an optional list of properties. A property is a “key: value” pair, where key is a string (also called a “property name”), and value can be anything.

An empty object (“empty cabinet”) can be created using one of two syntaxes:
```JS
let user = new Object(); // "object constructor" syntax
let user = {};  // "object literal" syntax
```
Usually, the figure brackets {...} are used. That declaration is called an object literal.

## Literals and properties
We can immediately put some properties into {...} as “key: value” pairs:
```JS
let user = {     // an object
  name: "John",  // by key "name" store value "John"
  age: 30        // by key "age" store value 30
};
```
A property has a key (also known as “name” or “identifier”) before the colon ":" and a value to the right of it.

In the user object, there are two properties:  
The first property has the name "name" and the value "John".
The second one has the name "age" and the value 30.

Property values are accessible using the dot notation:
```JS
// get property values of the object:
alert( user.name ); // John
alert( user.age ); // 30
```
The value can be of any type. Let’s add a boolean one:
```
user.isAdmin = true;
```
To remove a property, we can use delete operator:
```
delete user.age;
```
We can also use multiword property names, but then they must be quoted:
```JS
let user = {
  name: "John",
  age: 30,
  "likes birds": true  // multiword property name must be quoted
};
```

For multiword properties dot notation does not work. We need to use something like square brackets. 
```
alert(user["like birds"]);
```

## Property value shorthand
In real code we often use existing variables as values for property names.

For instance:
```JS
function makeUser(name, age) {
  return {
    name: name,
    age: age,
    // ...other properties
  };
}

let user = makeUser("John", 30);
alert(user.name); // John
```
In the example above, properties have the same names as variables. The use-case of making a property from a variable is so common, that there’s a special property value shorthand to make it shorter.

Instead of name:name we can just write name, like this:
```JS
function makeUser(name, age) {
  return {
    name, // same as name: name
    age,  // same as age: age
    // ...
  };
}
```

For checking if property exists in an object 
```
if("key" in object_name)
```

# Objects Referencing and copying

One of the fundamental differences of objects versus primitives is that objects are stored and copied “by reference”, whereas primitive values: strings, numbers, booleans, etc – are always copied “as a whole value”.

A variable assigned to an object stores not the object itself, but its “address in memory” – in other words “a reference” to it.

When an object variable is copied, the reference is copied, but the object itself is not duplicated.

Two objects are equal only if they are the same object.  
For instance, here a and b reference the same object, thus they are equal:
```js
let a = {};
let b = a; // copy the reference

alert( a == b ); // true, both variables reference the same object
alert( a === b ); // true
```
And here two independent objects are not equal, even though they look alike (both are empty):
```js
let a = {};
let b = {}; // two independent objects

alert( a == b ); // false
```

## Cloning and merging, Object.assign

Copying an object variable creates one more reference to the same object. 
To create a clone with the same properties we can do something like 
```Object.assign```

The syntax is:
```
Object.assign(dest, [src1, src2, src3...]) 
```
- The first argument dest is a target object.
- Further arguments src1, ..., srcN (can be as many as needed) are source objects.
- It copies the properties of all source objects src1, ..., srcN into the target dest. In other words, properties of all arguments starting from the second are copied into the first object.
- The call returns dest.
```js
// copies all properties from permissions1 and permissions2 into user
Object.assign(user, permissions1, permissions2);

let clone = Object.assign({}, user); //It copies all properties of user into the empty object and returns it.
```

## Garbage Collection 

Memory management in JavaScript is performed automatically and invisibly to us.

### Reachability
The main concept of memory management in JavaScript is reachability. Simply put, “reachable” values are those that are accessible or usable somehow. They are guaranteed to be stored in memory.
 Reachable values are those which are currently accessible through references or calls or are global variables. Also the local variables present in a currently executing function.

There’s a background process in the JavaScript engine that is called garbage collector. It monitors all objects and removes those that have become unreachable.

Suppose we have an object called ```user``` 
```js
const user = {
  name: "Hojhn"
}
```
Now if ```user= null```

Then user.name will be lost forever and theres no way to accesss it. Thus garbage collector will come into play and remove the object. 

### Internal algorithms
The basic garbage collection algorithm is called “mark-and-sweep”.

The following “garbage collection” steps are regularly performed:

The garbage collector takes roots and “marks” (remembers) them.
Then it visits and “marks” all references from them.
Then it visits marked objects and marks their references. All visited objects are remembered, so as not to visit the same object twice in the future.
…And so on until every reachable (from the roots) references are visited.
All objects except marked ones are removed.

## Object Methods, "this" 

A function that is a property of an object is called its method.

Method shorthand
There exists a shorter syntax for methods in an object literal:
```js
// these objects do the same

user = {
  sayHi: function() {
    alert("Hello");
  }
};

// method shorthand looks better, right?
user = {
  name: "Tushar",
  sayHi() { // same as "sayHi: function(){...}"
    alert(this.name);
    alert(user.name); //this will give the same result 
  }
};
```
As demonstrated, we can omit "function" and just write sayHi(). To access the object, a method can use the this keyword.

In JavaScript, keyword this behaves unlike most other programming languages. It can be used in any function, even if it’s not a method of an object.

### Arrow functions have no “this”
If we reference ```this``` from such a function, it’s taken from the outer “normal” function.

For instance, here arrow() uses this from the outer user.sayHi() method:
```js
let user = {
  firstName: "Ilya",
  sayHi() {
    let arrow = () => alert(this.firstName);
    arrow();
  }
};

user.sayHi(); // Ilya
```
 We can return references to the object by returning ```this``` it makes functions chainable.

 ## Constructor operator, new 

The regular {...} syntax allows to create one object. But often we need to create many similar objects, like multiple users or menu items and so on.

That can be done using constructor functions and the "new" operator.

### Constructor function
Constructor functions technically are regular functions. There are two conventions though:

- They are named with capital letter first.
- They should be executed only with "new" operator.
For instance:
```JS
function User(name) {
  this.name = name;
  this.isAdmin = false;
}

let user = new User("Jack");

alert(user.name); // Jack
alert(user.isAdmin); // false
```

Any function (except arrow functions, as they don’t have this) can be used as a constructor. 

### Constructor mode test: new.target

Inside a function, we can check whether it was called with new or without it, using a special new.target property.

It is undefined for regular calls and equals the function if called with new:
```js
function User() {
  alert(new.target);
}

// without "new":
User(); // undefined

// with "new":
new User(); // function User { ... }
```

### Return from constructors
Usually, constructors do not have a return statement. Their task is to write all necessary stuff into this, and it automatically becomes the result.

But if there is a return statement, then the rule is simple:

- If return is called with an object, then the object is returned instead of this.
- If return is called with a primitive, it’s ignored.
In other words, return with an object returns that object, in all other cases this is returned.

For instance, here return overrides this by returning an object:
```JS
function BigUser() {

  this.name = "John";

  return { name: "Godzilla" };  // <-- returns this object
}

alert( new BigUser().name );  // Godzilla, got that object
```

We can also add methods to this in our constructors. But it can be added only like :
```JS
function Accumulator(startingValue) {
  this.value = startingValue;

  this.read = function() {
    this.value += +prompt('How much to add?', 0);
  };
}
```
No arrow function or ```function read(){...}``` is allowed.

# Optional Chaining 
The optional chaining ```?.``` is a safe way to access nested object properties, even if an intermediate property doesn’t exist. 

Suppose we have an object user which has address property with nested property street looking like:
```JS
user = {
  name: 'Tushar',
  address: {
    street: 'some'
  }
}
```
Now in some case it may happen that ```user.address``` doesn't even exist. In that case js will throw an error. But in some cases we many want it throw undefined rather than throwing an error. 

We can use optional chaining in such cases. 
The optional chaining ?. stops the evaluation if the value before ?. is undefined or null and returns undefined.
```js
console.log(user?.address?.street)
```

works as ```user.address.street``` if user is present then address is present else returns undefined without throwing an error.

### Other variants: ?.(), ?.[]
The optional chaining ?. is not an operator, but a special syntax construct, that also works with functions and square brackets.

For example, ?.() is used to call a function that may not exist.

In the code below, some of our users have admin method, and some don’t:
```js
let userAdmin = {
  admin() {
    alert("I am admin");
  }
};

let userGuest = {};

userAdmin.admin?.(); // I am admin

userGuest.admin?.(); // nothing (no such method)
```
Here, in both lines we first use the dot (userAdmin.admin) to get admin property, because we assume that the user object exists, so it’s safe read from it.

Then ?.() checks the left part: if the admin function exists, then it runs (that’s so for userAdmin). Otherwise (for userGuest) the evaluation stops without errors.

The ?.[] syntax also works, if we’d like to use brackets [] to access properties instead of dot .. Similar to previous cases, it allows to safely read a property from an object that may not exist.