# Javascript Fundamentals
## The script tag
JavaScript programs can be inserted almost anywhere into an HTML document using the ```<script>``` tag. 
```HTML
<!DOCTYPE HTML>
<html>

<body>

  <p>Before the script...</p>

  <script>
    alert( 'Hello, world!' );
  </script>

  <p>...After the script.</p>

</body>

</html>
```

- The ```<script>``` tag contains JavaScript code which is automatically executed when the browser processes the tag.

## Modern markup
The ```<script>``` tag has a few attributes that are rarely used nowadays but can still be found in old code:

The type attribute: ```<script type= "">```
The old HTML standard, HTML4, required a script to have a type. Usually it was type="text/javascript". It’s not required anymore. Also, the modern HTML standard totally changed the meaning of this attribute. Now, it can be used for JavaScript modules. 

The language attribute: ```<script language= "">```
This attribute was meant to show the language of the script. This attribute no longer makes sense because JavaScript is the default language. There is no need to use it.

## External Scripts
If we have a lot of JavaScript code, we can put it into a separate file.
Script files are attached to HTML with the src attribute:
```JS
<script src="/path/to/script.js"></script>
``` 
Here, ```/path/to/script.js``` is an absolute path to the script from the site root. One can also provide a relative path from the current page. For instance, ```src="script.js"``` would mean a file ```"script.js"``` in the current folder.

We can give a full URL as well. For instance:
```JS
<script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/lodash.js/4.17.11/lodash.js"></script>
```
 <span style="color:yellow; font-size: 20px"> ⚠ </span> If src is set, the script content is ignored.


 ## The modern mode, "use strict"

 The directive looks like a string: ```"use strict"``` or ```'use strict'```. When it is located at the top of a script, the whole script works the “modern” way.

 <span style="color:yellow; font-size: 20px"> ⚠ </span> Ensure that “use strict” is at the top

<span style="color:yellow;"> Should we “use strict”?  
Modern JavaScript supports “classes” and “modules” – advanced language structures, that enable use strict automatically. So we don’t need to add the "use strict" directive, if we use them.

## Variables

A variable is a “named storage” for data. We can use variables to store goodies, visitors, and other data.
To create a variable in JavaScript, use the ```let``` keyword.

- #### Variable naming
There are two limitations on variable names in JavaScript:

1. The name must contain only letters, digits, or the symbols $ and _.
2. The first character must not be a digit.

## Constants
To declare a constant (unchanging) variable, use const instead of let:
```JS
const myBirthday = '18.04.1982';
```

constants cannot be reassigned.

## Data Types
There are eight basic data types in JavaScript. 
We can put any type in a variable. For example, a variable can at one moment be a string and then store a number:
```
// no error
let message = "hello";
message = 123456;
```
Programming languages that allow such things, such as JavaScript, are called “dynamically typed”, meaning that there exist data types, but variables are not bound to any of them.

- ### Numbers
 The number type represents both integer and floating point numbers.
 Besides regular numbers, there are so-called “special numeric values” which also belong to this data type: Infinity, -Infinity and NaN.

- ### BigInt
In JavaScript, the “number” type cannot represent integer values larger than (253-1) (that’s 9007199254740991), or less than -(253-1) for negatives. It’s a technical limitation caused by their internal representation.

BigInt type was recently added to the language to represent integers of arbitrary length.
A BigInt value is created by appending n to the end of an integer:
```JS
// the "n" at the end means it's a BigInt
const bigInt = 1234567890123456789012345678901234567890n;
```

- ### String
A string in JavaScript must be surrounded by quotes.
```JS
let str = "Hello";
let str2 = 'Single quotes are ok too';
let phrase = `can embed another ${str}`;
```
In JavaScript, there are 3 types of quotes.

Double quotes: "Hello".
Single quotes: 'Hello'.
Backticks: `Hello`.
Double and single quotes are “simple” quotes. There’s practically no difference between them in JavaScript.

Backticks are “extended functionality” quotes. They allow us to embed variables and expressions into a string by wrapping them in ${…}, for example:
```JS
let name = "John";

// embed a variable
alert( `Hello, ${name}!` ); // Hello, John!

// embed an expression
alert( `the result is ${1 + 2}` ); // the result is 3
```
- ### Boolean (logical type)
The boolean type has only two values: ```true``` and ```false```.

This type is commonly used to store yes/no values: true means “yes, correct”, and false means “no, incorrect”.

- ### The “null” value
The special null value does not belong to any of the types described above.

It forms a separate type of its own which contains only the null value:
```JS
let age = null;
```
In JavaScript, null is not a “reference to a non-existing object” or a “null pointer” like in some other languages.

It’s just a special value which represents “nothing”, “empty” or “value unknown”.

The code above states that age is unknown.

- ### The “undefined” value
The special value undefined also stands apart. It makes a type of its own, just like null.
The meaning of undefined is “value is not assigned”.

If a variable is declared, but not assigned, then its value is undefined:
```JS
let age;

alert(age); // shows "undefined"
```

- ### Objects and Symbols
The object type is special.

All other types are called “primitive” because their values can contain only a single thing (be it a string or a number or whatever). In contrast, objects are used to store collections of data and more complex entities.

Being that important, objects deserve a special treatment. 

The symbol type is used to create unique identifiers for objects. 

## Interaction: alert, prompt, confirm

- ### alert
This one we’ve seen already. It shows a message and waits for the user to press “OK”.

For example:
```JS
alert("Hello");
```
The mini-window with the message is called a modal window. The word “modal” means that the visitor can’t interact with the rest of the page, press other buttons, etc, until they have dealt with the window.

- ### prompt
The function prompt accepts two arguments:
```JS
result = prompt(title, [default]);
```
It shows a modal window with a text message, an input field for the visitor, and the buttons OK/Cancel.

**title**
The text to show the visitor.

**default**
An optional second parameter, the initial value for the input field.

- ### confirm
The syntax:
```JS
result = confirm(question);
```
The function confirm shows a modal window with a question and two buttons: OK and Cancel.

The result is true if OK is pressed and false otherwise.

For example:
```JS
let isBoss = confirm("Are you the boss?");

alert( isBoss ); // true if OK is pressed

```
## Type Conversions

Most of the times things are implicitly converted to fit the right types.
But sometimes we need to explicitly convert types. 
```JS
const numberAsString = String(123); //"123"
const booleanAsNumber = Number(true); //1
const stringAsNumber = Number("123"); // 123
```

## Basic Operators, Maths
**Operand** Operands are those on which operators are applied on.  

**Unary** - Operator which works only one operand.  
 Example 
 ```JS
 const count = 0 ;
 count++;
 ```

  - ### Maths
The following math operations are supported:

Addition +,  
Subtraction -,  
Multiplication *,  
Division /,  
Remainder %,  
Exponentiation **  -> Raises to power ``` a ** b ```

 - ### Notes 
 If any of the operand is a string then other value becomes string two while concatenating.
 ```JS
 const result = '1' + 1 ;// 11
 ```

 The binary ```+``` is the only operator that supports strings in such a way. Other arithmetic operators work only with numbers and always convert their operands to numbers.

Here’s the demo for subtraction and division:
```JS
alert( 6 - '2' ); // 4, converts '2' to a number
alert( '6' / '2' ); // 3, converts both operands to numbers
```

If ```+``` is put infront of a number it doesn't affect it but putting it before a string makes that string a number.
```JS
const stringNumber = "26"
+stringNumber; // 26
```
## Comparisons

Strings are compared lexicographically.

## Ternary Operator

```
let result = (condition) ? true : false ;
let isageGreaterThanEighteen = ( age > 18) ? true : false

```

Also we can write some complex nested ternary operators 
```JS
let result = (age > 18) ? true : 
              (age < 15) ? true :
              (age < 10) ? true : undefined
```