## The Old Var
`` var`` creates function scoped or global scoped variables. There's no scope of block.

- var tolerates redeclarations. 

If a code block is inside a function, then ``var`` becomes a function-level variable:
```js
function sayHi() {
  if (true) {
    var phrase = "Hello";
  }

  alert(phrase); // works
}

sayHi();
alert(phrase); // ReferenceError: phrase is not defined
```

### Declarations are hoisted, but assignments are not.

That’s best demonstrated with an example:
```js
function sayHi() {
  alert(phrase);

  var phrase = "Hello";
}

sayHi();
```
The line var phrase = "Hello" has two actions in it:

Variable declaration var
Variable assignment =.
The declaration is processed at the start of function execution (“hoisted”), but the assignment always works at the place where it appears. So the code works essentially like this:

function sayHi() {
  var phrase; // declaration works at the start...

  alert(phrase); // undefined

  phrase = "Hello"; // ...assignment - when the execution reaches it.
}

sayHi();
Because all var declarations are processed at the function start, we can reference them at any place. But variables are undefined until the assignments.

In both examples above, alert runs without an error, because the variable phrase exists. But its value is not yet assigned, so it shows ``undefined``.

### IIFE 
- Immediately-invoked function expressions” (abbreviated as IIFE).
An IIFE looks like this:
```js
(function() {

  var message = "Hello";

  alert(message); // Hello

})();
```

Using paranthesis around function declaration is to trick JS into thinking that it is being called with some other functions expression context. Else it will give an error as it is not allowed to call javascript functions immediately. Also without any name we can call it too. 
