## Function Objects and NFE

In JavaScript, functions are objects.
A good way to imagine functions is as callable ``“action objects”``. We can not only call them, but also treat them as objects: add/remove properties, pass by reference etc.

### The “name” property
Example: 
```js
function sayHi() {
  alert("Hi");
}

alert(sayHi.name); // sayHi
```
Name-assigning logic is smart it assigns a name even if it is not given. 
```js 
let sayHi = function() {
  alert("Hi");
};

alert(sayHi.name); // sayHi (there's a name!)
```
This is called _contextual name_. If the function does not provide one, then in an assignment it is figured out from the context.

Object methods have name too: 
```js
let user = {
  sayHi(){
    console.log(this.sayHi.name) // this in a method refers to the object 
  }
}

user.sayHi(); //sayHi
```

There may be cases where assigning name is not possible and is hence left empty.

### The Length Property
There is another built-in property “length” that returns the number of function parameters. 
```js
function f1(a) {}
function f2(a, b) {}
function many(a, b, ...more) {}

alert(f1.length); // 1
alert(f2.length); // 2
alert(many.length); // 2
```
### Custom Properties
We can also add our own properties. 
```js
function sayHi() {
  alert("Hi");

  // let's count how many times we run
  sayHi.counter++;
}
sayHi.counter = 0; // initial value

sayHi(); // Hi
sayHi(); // Hi

alert( `Called ${sayHi.counter} times` ); // Called 2 times
```
 _A property is not a variable_
- A property assigned to a function like ``sayHi.counter = 0`` does not define a local variable counter inside it. In other words, a property counter and a variable ``let counter`` are two unrelated things.

_We can treat a function as an object, store properties in it, but that has no effect on its execution. Variables are not function properties and vice versa._ These are just parallel worlds.


A function property can replace closure sometimes. For instance, we can rewrite the counter function example from the chapter Variable scope, closure to use a function property:
```js
function makeCounter() {
  // instead of:
  // let count = 0

  function counter() {
    return counter.count++;
  };

  counter.count = 0;

  return counter;
}

let counter = makeCounter();
alert( counter() ); // 0
alert( counter() ); // 1
```
The count is now stored in the function directly, not in its outer Lexical Environment. The main difference is that if the value of count lives in an outer variable, then external code is unable to access it. Only nested functions may modify it. And if it’s bound to a function, then such a thing is possible:

```js
counter.count = 10; 
counter() // 10
counter() // 11 
```
### Named Function Expression
Named Function Expression, or NFE, is a term for Function Expressions that have a name.

For instance, let’s take an ordinary Function Expression:
```js
let sayHi = function func(who) {
  alert(`Hello, ${who}`);
};
```