## Class Inheritance 
Class inheritance is a way for one class to extend another class.

### The “extends” keyword

Suppose we have a Animal class 
```js
class Animal {
  constructor(name) {
    this.speed = 0;
    this.name = name;
  }
  run(speed) {
    this.speed = speed;
    alert(`${this.name} runs with speed ${this.speed}.`);
  }
  stop() {
    this.speed = 0;
    alert(`${this.name} stands still.`);
  }
}

let animal = new Animal("My animal"); 
```

Now if we want to make a rabbit class than it should be based on this animal class so that rabbits can do what generic animals can do and have their own methods as well. 

The syntax to extend another class is:``` class Child extends Parent```.
```js
class Rabbit extends Animal {
  hide() {
    alert(`${this.name} hides!`);
  }
}

let rabbit = new Rabbit("White Rabbit");

rabbit.run(5); // White Rabbit runs with speed 5.
rabbit.hide(); // White Rabbit hides!
```
Object of Rabbit class have access both to Rabbit methods, such as ``rabbit.hide()``, and also to Animal methods, such as ``rabbit.run()``.

Class syntax allows to specify not just a class, but any expression after extends.

For instance, a function call that generates the parent class:
```js
function f(phrase) {
  return class {
    sayHi() { alert(phrase); }
  };
}

class User extends f("Hello") {}

new User().sayHi(); // Hello~
```
Here class User inherits from the result of f("Hello").

That may be useful for advanced programming patterns when we use functions to generate classes depending on many conditions and can inherit from them.

### Overriding a method 
All methods that are not specified in class Rabbit are taken directly “as is” from class Animal.
But if we specify a method in the class Rabbit then it would be taken from there. 
Usually we don’t want to totally replace a parent method, but rather to build on top of it to tweak or extend its functionality. We do something in our method, but call the parent method before/after it or in the process.

Classes provide "super" keyword for that.
- ``super.method(...)`` to call a parent method.
- ``super(...)`` to call a parent constructor (inside our constructor only).

Example: 
Implement a ``stop()`` method in rabbit class too which is also inherited from ``Animal`` class. 
```js
class Animal{
    constructor(name){
        this.name = name
        this.speed = 0 ;
    }

    run(withSpeed){
        this.speed = withSpeed
        console.log(`${this.name} runs at ${this.speed}`)
    }
    stop(){
        this.speed = 0; 
        console.log(`${this.name} stopped. `)
    }
}

class Rabbit extends Animal{
    hide(){
        console.log(`${this.name} hides`)
    }

    stop(){
        super.stop() // calls the parent[Animal] super.stop() in the process
        this.hide();
    }

}
```
### Overriding constructor 

According to the specification, if a class extends another class and has no constructor, then the following “empty” constructor is generated:
```js
class Rabbit extends Animal {
  // generated for extending classes without own constructors
  constructor(...args) {
    super(...args);
  }
}
```
It basically calls the parent constructor passing it all the arguments.

Now if we need ``Rabbit`` to have its own constructor which intializes some specific properties of ``Rabbit`` : 
Suppose we need to add a property called ``earLength`` in ``Rabbit``: 
```js
class Animal {
  constructor(name){
    this.speed = 0;
    this.name = name
  }
}

class Rabbit extends Animal{
  construcotr(name, earlength){
    super(name) // calling parent constuctor before accessing this with arguments that is accepted by parent constructor 
    this.earLength = 1;
  }
}

let rabbit = new Rabbit("White Rabbit", 10);
alert(rabbit.name); // White Rabbit
alert(rabbit.earLength); // 10
```
Why calling ``super()`` that too before accessing ``this``  
**Constructors in inheriting classes must call super(...), and (!) do it before using this.**

Why this requirement? 
There's a difference between a constructor function of an inheriting class and other functions.  A derived constructor has a special internal property [[ConstructorKind]]:"derived". That’s a special internal label.

That label affects its behavior with new.

- When a regular function is executed with ``new``, it creates an empty object and assigns it to this.
- But when a derived constructor runs, it doesn’t do this. It expects the parent constructor to do this job.

So a derived constructor must call super in order to execute its parent (base) constructor, otherwise the object for this won’t be created. And we’ll get an error. 
This is why ``super()`` should be called before using this in derived class because no object would be created unless parent constructor is called. 

### Overriding class fields 
We can override not only methods, but also class fields.

```js
class Animal {
  name = 'animal';

  constructor() {
    alert(this.name); // (*)
  }
}

class Rabbit extends Animal {
  // here the constructor will be called automatically like super(...args)
  name = 'rabbit';
}

new Animal(); // animal
new Rabbit(); // animal
```
Here, class Rabbit extends Animal and overrides the name field with its own value.

There’s no own constructor in Rabbit, so Animal constructor is called. But in both cases it alerts animal only. 
**In other words, the parent constructor always uses its own field value, not the overridden one.**
But that doesnt happen with methods. 
Example: 
```js
class Animal {
  showName() {  // instead of this.name = 'animal'
    alert('animal');
  }

  constructor() {
    this.showName(); // instead of alert(this.name);
  }
}

class Rabbit extends Animal {
  showName() {
    alert('rabbit');
  }
}

new Animal(); // animal
new Rabbit(); // rabbit
```
That’s what we naturally expect. When the parent constructor is called in the derived class, it uses the overridden method.

…But for class fields it’s not so. The parent constructor always uses the parent field.
Why is there a difference?

Well, the reason is the field initialization order. The class field is initialized:

- Before constructor for the base class (that doesn’t extend anything),
- Immediately after ``super()`` for the derived class.
In our case, ``Rabbit`` is the derived class. There’s no ``constructor()`` in it. As said previously, that’s the same as if there was an empty constructor with only ``super(...args)``.

So, new ``Rabbit()`` calls ``super()``, thus executing the parent constructor, and (per the rule for derived classes) only after that its class fields are initialized. At the time of the parent constructor execution, there are no Rabbit class fields yet, that’s why Animal fields are used. As the constructor is called and aler is called inside it hence it uses name class field from the parent only. 
Luckily, this behavior only reveals itself if an overridden field is used in the parent constructor.

### Super: internals, [[HomeObject]]
Let’s get a little deeper under the hood of super. We’ll see some interesting things along the way.

First to say, from all that we’ve learned till now, it’s impossible for super to work at all!

Yeah, indeed, let’s ask ourselves, how it should technically work? When an object method runs, it gets the current object as this. If we call ``super.method()`` then, the engine needs to get the method from the prototype of the current object. But how?

The task may seem simple, but it isn’t. The engine knows the current object this, so it could get the parent method as ``this.__proto__.method``. Unfortunately, such a “naive” solution won’t work.

In the example below, ``rabbit.__proto__ = animal``. Now let’s try: in ``rabbit.eat()`` we’ll call ``animal.eat()``, using ``this.__proto__``:
```js
let animal = {
  name: "Animal",
  eat() {
    alert(`${this.name} eats.`);
  }
};

let rabbit = {
  __proto__: animal,
  name: "Rabbit",
  eat() {
    // that's how super.eat() could presumably work
    this.__proto__.eat.call(this); // (*)
  }
};

rabbit.eat(); // Rabbit eats.
```

At the line (*) we take eat from the prototype (animal) and call it in the context of the current object. It actually works as intended: we have the correct alert. 

Now let’s add one more object to the chain. We’ll see how things break:
```js
let animal = {
  name: "Animal",
  eat() {
    alert(`${this.name} eats.`);
  }
};

let rabbit = {
  __proto__: animal,
  eat() {
    // ...bounce around rabbit-style and call parent (animal) method
    this.__proto__.eat.call(this); // (*)
  }
};

let longEar = {
  __proto__: rabbit,
  eat() {
    // ...do something with long ears and call parent (rabbit) method
    this.__proto__.eat.call(this); // (**)
  }
};

longEar.eat(); // Error: Maximum call stack size exceeded
```

What happens is we call ``longer.eat()`` which calls the prototype either rabbit's eat method with this (longear) which forms an endless loop calling rabbit's eat method again and again. 

Inside ``longEar.eat()``, the line ``(**)`` calls ``rabbit.eat`` providing it with ``this=longEar``.
```js
// inside longEar.eat() we have this = longEar
this.__proto__.eat.call(this) // (**)
// becomes
longEar.__proto__.eat.call(this)
// that is
rabbit.eat.call(this);
```
Then in the line ``(*)`` of ``rabbit.eat``, we’d like to pass the call even higher in the chain, but ``this=longEar``, so ``this.__proto__.eat`` is again ``rabbit.eat``!
```js
// inside rabbit.eat() we also have this = longEar
this.__proto__.eat.call(this) // (*)
// becomes
longEar.__proto__.eat.call(this)
// or (again)
rabbit.eat.call(this);
```
…So ``rabbit.eat`` calls itself in the endless loop, because it can’t ascend any further.

### [[HomeObject]]

To provide the solution, JavaScript adds one more special internal property for functions: [[HomeObject]].
When a function is specified as a class or object method, its [[HomeObject]] property becomes that object.
Then super uses it to resolve the parent prototype and its methods.

Let’s see how it works, first with plain objects:
```js
let animal = {
  name: "Animal",
  eat() {         // animal.eat.[[HomeObject]] == animal
    alert(`${this.name} eats.`);
  }
};

let rabbit = {
  __proto__: animal,
  name: "Rabbit",
  eat() {         // rabbit.eat.[[HomeObject]] == rabbit
    super.eat();
  }
};

let longEar = {
  __proto__: rabbit,
  name: "Long Ear",
  eat() {         // longEar.eat.[[HomeObject]] == longEar
    super.eat();
  }
};

// works correctly
longEar.eat();  // Long Ear eats.
```
so we shouldnt be accessing parent methods using this and instead using super to call the parent methods. 
It works as intended, due to ``[[HomeObject]]`` mechanics. A method, such as ``longEar.eat``, knows its ``[[HomeObject]]`` and takes the parent method from its prototype. Without any use of this.

### Methods are not “free”
As we’ve known before, generally functions are “free”, not bound to objects in JavaScript. So they can be copied between objects and called with another this.

The very existence of [[HomeObject]] violates that principle, because methods remember their objects. [[HomeObject]] can’t be changed, so this bond is forever.

The only place in the language where [[HomeObject]] is used – is super. So, if a method does not use super, then we can still consider it free and copy between objects. But with super things may go wrong.

[[HomeObject]] is defined for methods both in classes and in plain objects. But for objects, methods must be specified exactly as method(), not as "method: function()"

In the example below a non-method syntax is used for comparison. [[HomeObject]] property is not set and the inheritance doesn’t work:
```js
let animal = {
  eat: function() { // intentionally writing like this instead of eat() {...
    // ...
  }
};

let rabbit = {
  __proto__: animal,
  eat: function() {
    super.eat();
  }
};

rabbit.eat();  // Error calling super (because there's no [[HomeObject]])
```