## Private and protected properties and methods
In terms of OOP, delimiting of the internal interface from the external one is called encapsulation.
In object-oriented programming, properties and methods are split into two groups:

_Internal interface_ – methods and properties, accessible from other methods of the class, but not from the outside.   
_External interface_ – methods and properties, accessible also from outside the class.

In JavaScript, there are two types of object fields (properties and methods):
_Public_: accessible from anywhere. They comprise the external interface. Until now we were only using public properties and methods.  
_Private_: accessible only from inside the class. These are for the internal interface.

Protected fields are not implemented in JavaScript on the language level, but in practice they are very convenient, so they are emulated.
_protected_ fields: accessible only from inside the class and those extending it (like private, but plus access from inheriting classes).
Protected properties are usually prefixed with an underscore`` _``.

Making a property protected gives more control over it. Here ``_waterAmount`` is protected and putting a value less than 0 will set it to 0. 
```js
class CoffeeMachine {
    _waterAmount = 0 ;

    set waterAmount(value){
        if(value < 0){
            value = 0
        }
        this._waterAmount = value;
    }

    get waterAmount(){
        return this._waterAmount; 
    }

    constructor(power){
        this._power = power
    }
}

const c1 = new CoffeeMachine(23);
```

Making a property read-only we just dont write the set method for that property.

If we inherit class MegaMachine extends CoffeeMachine, then nothing prevents us from accessing this.``_waterAmount`` or ``this._power`` from the methods of the new class.
```js
class CoffeeMachine {
  // ...

  constructor(power) {
    this._power = power;
  }

  get power() {
    return this._power;
  }

}

// create the coffee machine
let coffeeMachine = new CoffeeMachine(100);

alert(`Power is: ${coffeeMachine.power}W`); // Power is: 100W

coffeeMachine.power = 25; // Error (no setter)
```

So protected fields are naturally inheritable.

### Private 
There’s a finished JavaScript proposal, almost in the standard, that provides language-level support for private properties and methods.
Privates should start with`` #`` They are only accessible from inside the class.

Example: 
```js
class CoffeeMachine {
  #waterLimit = 200;

  #fixWaterAmount(value) {
    if (value < 0) return 0;
    if (value > this.#waterLimit) return this.#waterLimit;
  }

  setWaterAmount(value) {
    this.#waterLimit = this.#fixWaterAmount(value);
  }

}

let coffeeMachine = new CoffeeMachine();

// can't access privates from outside of the class
coffeeMachine.#fixWaterAmount(123); // Error
coffeeMachine.#waterLimit = 1000; // Error
```
Private fields do not conflict with public ones. We can have both private #waterAmount and public waterAmount fields at the same time.

For instance, let’s make ``waterAmount`` an accessor for ``#waterAmount``:
```js
class CoffeeMachine {

  #waterAmount = 0;

  get waterAmount() {
    return this.#waterAmount;
  }

  set waterAmount(value) {
    if (value < 0) value = 0;
    this.#waterAmount = value;
  }
}

let machine = new CoffeeMachine();

machine.waterAmount = 100;
alert(machine.#waterAmount); // Error
```
Here unknowingly we create a public field called waterAmount which can be get and set using the above methods hence providing as an accessor for #waterAmount which is private. 

But if we inherit from CoffeeMachine, then we’ll have no direct access to #waterAmount. We’ll need to rely on waterAmount getter/setter:
```js
class MegaCoffeeMachine extends CoffeeMachine {
  method() {
    alert( this.#waterAmount ); // Error: can only access from CoffeeMachine
  }
}
```