## Hoisting in JS

This is the normal flow of a JS program.
```js

var x = 7 ;
function getName(){
    console.log('HOISTING');
}

getName(); // OUTPUT: HOISTING
console.log(x); // 7
```

But if we do something like 
```js
getName();  // HOISTING
console.log(x); // undefined

var x = 7 ;
function getName(){
    console.log('HOISTING');
}

```
This is known as **Hoisting**. We are accessing the function and the variable even before intializing it. Though the variable gives ``undefined`` as value of it. In case of function the whole code is put in place of that function in first phase only and that is the reason why function gets invoked. 

Javascript moves declaration to the top of the scope. **Variables are partially hoisted and functions are completely hoisted**. In variables value is not given but only declared in the memory. While in case of functions the function is itself hoisted to the top and the whole function body is copied. 

Arrow functions do not get hoisted completely. Function expressions(``const name = function () {}``) or arrow functions behave like variables, and they are not hoisted. 

---
Hoisting in JavaScript is a mechanism by which variable and function declarations are moved to the top of their respective scopes during the compilation phase, before the code is executed. This means that variables and functions can be declared after they are used in the code, and they will still be accessible in their entire scope.

For example, consider the following code:

```
console.log(x);
var x = 5;
```

Even though `x` is logged to the console before it is declared, it will not produce an error. This is because the declaration of `x` is hoisted to the top of the scope, and the variable is initialized with the value `undefined`.

The same applies to function declarations:

```
foo();

function foo() {
  console.log('Hello, world!');
}
```

In this case, the call to `foo()` before its declaration will not produce an error. This is because the function declaration is hoisted to the top of the scope, and is available throughout the entire scope.

It's important to note that hoisting only applies to variable and function declarations, not to their assignments. In addition, let and const declarations are not hoisted, and will produce an error if used before they are declared.
