## Let & const declarations

``let`` and ``const`` declarations are hoisted but very differently. _We cannot use them before intialization_ like we can do with ``var`` . 

```js
console.log(a); // Give an error saying cannot access before intialization //let
console.log(b); // undefined // var 
let a = 10;
var b = 100;
```

While using ``let`` keyword we cannot access variables before declaring it as in case of ``var`` keyword. 
Though we can access it before intializing it by just declaring it. ``let`` and ``const`` declared variables are stored in a separate memory space and we cannot access this memory space until we assign some value to it. 

### Temporal Dead Zone 

The time when the identifier has been assigned memory using the ``let`` keyword but is waiting to be assigned value is known as the **Temporal Dead Zone**. The variable is said to be in the temporal dead zone. 


## Let is more strict than var 

- ``let`` and ``const`` are hoisted. We can't use them before initialization is result of "temporal dead zone".  
- JS uses different memory than global execution context to store ``let`` and ``const``, which is the reason behind "temporal dead zone".  
- level of strictness ... ``var`` << ``let`` << ``const``.  
- var  = no temporal dead zone, can redeclare and re-initialize, stored in GEC      
  let = use TDZ, can't re-declare, can re-initialize, stored in separate memory      
  const = use TDZ, can't re-declare, can't re-initialize, stored in separate memory      
- syntax error is similar to compile error. while type and reference error falls under run time error.    
- syntax error ... violation of JS syntax      
  type error ...  while trying to re-initialize ``const`` variable      
  reference error ... while trying to access variable which is not there in global memory.