## Numbers

In modern JavaScript, there are two types of numbers:

1. Regular numbers in JavaScript are stored in 64-bit format ``IEEE-754``, also known as “double precision floating point numbers”.
2. ``BigInt`` numbers, to represent integers of arbitrary length. They are sometimes needed, because a regular number can’t safely exceed 2^53 or be less than -2^53.

Internally, a number is represented in 64-bit format IEEE-754, so there are exactly 64 bits to store a number: 52 of them are used to store the digits, 11 of them store the position of the decimal point (they are zero for integer numbers), and 1 bit is for the sign.

## Writing Numbers
```js
let billion = 1_000_000_000;
```
Acceptable ```_``` are ignored.

In JavaScript, we can shorten a number by appending the letter "e" to it and specifying the zeroes count:
```js
let billion = 1e9;  // 1 billion, literally: 1 and 9 zeroes
let ms = 0.000001;
let ms = 1e-6; // six zeroes to the left from 1 

// e represents how many digits are after decimal
```

Hexadecimal, octal and Binary Numbers
```js
alert( 0xff ); // 255 Hexadecimal
alert( 0b111111) //binary
alert( 0o377 ) //octal
```
There are only 3 numeral systems with such support. For other numeral systems, we should use the function ``parseInt``.

### toString(base)
The method ``num.toString(base)`` returns a string representation of num in the numeral system with the given base.

For example:
```js
let num = 255;

alert( num.toString(16) );  // ff
alert( num.toString(2) );   // 11111111
```
The base can vary from 2 to 36. By default it’s 10.
When directly using on a number we need to use two dots.
```js
23..toString(16);
```
### Rounding
There are several built-in functions for rounding:

``Math.floor``
Rounds down: 3.1 becomes 3, and -1.1 becomes -2.
``Math.ceil``
Rounds up: 3.1 becomes 4, and -1.1 becomes -1.
``Math.round``
Rounds to the nearest integer: 3.1 becomes 3, 3.6 becomes 4, the middle case: 3.5 rounds up to 4 too.
``Math.trunc`` (not supported by Internet Explorer)
Removes anything after the decimal point without rounding: 3.1 becomes 3, -1.1 becomes -1.

The method ``toFixed(n)`` rounds the number to n digits after the point and returns a string representation of the result.
```js
let num = 12.34;
alert( num.toFixed(1) ); // "12.3"
```

We should always use ```.toFixed``` method while dealing with floating point numbers as there tends be a precision error.

### Tests: isFinite and isNaN
- Infinity (and -Infinity) is a special numeric value that is greater (less) than anything.
- NaN represents an error.
```js

isNaN(NaN) // true
isNaN("5") // false // converts into a number 
isFinite("str") // false
isFinite(14) // true
```

### Obejct.is(v1, v2)

```js
Object.is(1,2) // false
Object.is(1,1) // true
Object.is(1, "1") // false
```

### parseInt and parseFloat
Numeric conversion using a plus ``+`` or ``Number()`` is strict. If a value is not exactly a number, it fails:
```js
alert( +"100px" ); // NaN
```
So in such cases we have methods like ```parseInt()``` and ```parseFloat()```. They “read” a number from a string until they can’t. In case of an error, the gathered number is returned. The second argument of ```parseInt(str, radix)``` The function ``parseInt`` returns an integer, whilst ``parseFloat`` will return a floating-point number:
```js
alert( parseInt("100px") ); //100
alert( parseInt('a123') ); // NaN, the first symbol stops the process

```

- The second argument of ``parseInt(str, radix)``
The ``parseInt()`` function has an optional second parameter. It specifies the base of the numeral system, so ``parseInt`` can also parse strings of hex numbers, binary numbers and so on:
```js
alert( parseInt('0xff', 16) ); // 255
alert( parseInt('ff', 16) ); // 255, without 0x also works

alert( parseInt('2n9c', 36) ); // 123456
```

- parseFloat
```js
alert( parseFloat('12.5em') ); // 12.5
alert( parseFloat('12.3.4') ); // 12.3, the second point stops the reading
```
There are situations when parseInt/parseFloat will return NaN. It happens when no digits could be read:
```js
alert( parseInt('a123') ); // NaN, the first symbol stops the process
```