## Objects
Objects are used to store keyed collections of various data and more complex entities.  
An object can be created with figure brackets ``{…}`` with an optional list of properties. A property is a “``key: value``” pair, where ``key`` is a string (also called a “property name”), and value can be anything.

An empty object (“empty cabinet”) can be created using one of two syntaxes:
```JS
let user = new Object(); // "object constructor" syntax
let user = {};  // "object literal" syntax
```
Usually, the figure brackets ``{...}`` are used. That declaration is called an ``object literal``.

## Literals and properties
We can immediately put some properties into ``{...}`` as “``key: value``” pairs:
```JS
let user = {     // an object
  name: "John",  // by key "name" store value "John"
  age: 30        // by key "age" store value 30
};
```
A property has a _key_ (also known as “name” or “identifier”) before the colon "``:``" and a value to the right of it.

In the ``user`` object, there are two properties:  
- The first property has the name "name" and the value "John".
- The second one has the name "age" and the value 30.

Property values are accessible using the dot notation:
```JS
// get property values of the object:
alert( user.name ); // John
alert( user.age ); // 30
```
The value can be of any type.:
```js
user.isAdmin = true; // Boolean
```

To remove a property, we can use ``delete`` operator:
```js
delete user.age;
```

We can also use multiword property names, but then they must be quoted:
```JS
let user = {
  name: "John",
  age: 30,
  "likes birds": true  // multiword property names must be quoted
};
```

For multiword properties dot notation does not work. We need to use something like _square brackets_. 
```js
alert(user["like birds"]);
```

### Computed properties
We can use square brackets in an object literal, when creating an object. That’s called computed properties.

For instance:
```js
let fruit = prompt("Which fruit to buy?", "apple");

let bag = {
  [fruit]: 5, // the name of the property is taken from the variable fruit
};

alert( bag.apple ); // 5 if fruit="apple"
```
The meaning of a computed property is simple: ``[fruit]`` means that the property name should be taken from fruit.

so if
```js
let fruit ='apple'

// then 
bag.apple = 5
```

## Property value shorthand
In real code we often use existing variables as values for property names.

For instance:
```JS
function makeUser(name, age) {
  return {
    name: name,
    age: age,
    // ...other properties
  };
}

let user = makeUser("John", 30);
alert(user.name); // John
```
In the example above, _properties_ have the same names as _variables_. The use-case of making a property from a variable is so common, that there’s a special property value shorthand to make it shorter.

Instead of ``name:name`` we can just write ``name``, like this:
```JS
function makeUser(name, age) {
  return {
    name, // same as name: name
    age,  // same as age: age
    // ...
  };
}
```

For checking if property exists in an object 
```JS
if("key" in object_name)
```
### Property existence test, “in” operator
A notable feature of objects in JavaScript, compared to many other languages, is that it’s possible to access any property. There will be no error if the property doesn’t exist!

The syntax is:
```
"key" in object
```

For instance:
```js
let user = { name: "John", age: 30 };

alert( "age" in user ); // true, user.age exists
alert( "blabla" in user ); // false, user.blabla doesn't exist
```
Please note that on the left side of in there must be a property name. That’s usually a quoted string.

**In order to be iterable, an object must implement the @@iterator method**

### Order in Obejcts

Integer properties are sorted, others appear in creation order.
Example: 
```js
let codes = {
  "49": "Germany",
  "41": "Switzerland",
  "44": "Great Britain",
  // ..,
  "1": "USA"
};

for (let code in codes) {
  alert(code); // 1, 41, 44, 49
}
```

The phone codes go in the ascending sorted order, because they are integers. So we see ``1, 41, 44, 49``.
So, to fix the issue with the phone codes, we can “cheat” by making the codes non-integer. Adding a plus "+" sign before each code is enough.

Like this:
```js
let codes = {
  "+49": "Germany",
  "+41": "Switzerland",
  "+44": "Great Britain",
  // ..,
  "+1": "USA"
};

for (let code in codes) {
  alert( +code ); // 49, 41, 44, 1
}
```