## Property flags and descriptors

### Property flags
Object properties, besides a value, have three special attributes (so-called “flags”):

``writable`` – if ``true``, the value can be changed, otherwise it’s read-only.
``enumerable`` – if ``true``, then listed in loops, otherwise not listed.
``configurable`` – if ``true``, the property can be deleted and these attributes can be modified, otherwise not.

- To get the property and its description: 
`` Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor(objectName, 'propertyName'); ``
```js
let user = {
  name: "John"
};

let descriptor = Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor(user, 'name');

alert( JSON.stringify(descriptor, null, 2 ) );
/* property descriptor:
{
  "value": "John",
  "writable": true,
  "enumerable": true,
  "configurable": true
}
*/
```

### To change these flags 
`` Object.defineProperty(objectName, propertyName, descriptor) ``

``
_obj, propertyName_
The object and its property to apply the descriptor.  
_descriptor_
Property descriptor object to apply.
``

```js
let user = {};

Object.defineProperty(user, "name", {
  value: "John"
});

let descriptor = Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor(user, 'name');

alert( JSON.stringify(descriptor, null, 2 ) );
/*
{
  "value": "John",
  "writable": false,
  "enumerable": false,
  "configurable": false
}
 */
```
If the property exists, ``defineProperty`` updates its flags. Otherwise, it creates the property with the given value and flags; in that case, if a flag is not supplied, it is assumed ``false``.


Making Property : 

1. Non writable(can't be reasssigned)
```js
let user = {
  name: "John"
};

Object.defineProperty(user, "name", {
  writable: false
});

user.name = "Pete"; // Error: Cannot assign to read only property 'name'
```

For new properties we need to explicitly list what's true or it will be false by default
```js
let user = {};
Object.defineProperty(user, 'name', {
  enumerable: true,
  configurable: true
}) 
user.name = "Petr"// ERROR 
```
2. Non enumerable 
Normally all properties are enumerable inside an object but if we want to make a property non-enumerable.   Example:
 like ``toString()`` method in an object it does not show in ``for..in``. 
 ```js
 let user = {
  name: "John",
  toString() {
    return this.name;
  }
};

Object.defineProperty(user, "toString", {
  enumerable: false
});

// Now our toString disappears:
for (let key in user) alert(key); // name
 ```

3. Non configurable (configurable:false)
_A non-configurable property can’t be deleted, its attributes can’t be modified._
Making a property non-configurable is a one-way road. We cannot change it back with defineProperty.

Note: configurable: ``false`` prevents changes of property flags and its deletion, while allowing to change its value.
Example: 
```js
let user = {
  name: "John"
};

Object.defineProperty(user, "name", {
  configurable: false
});

user.name = "Pete"; // works fine
delete user.name; // Error
```

- ``Object.defineProperties``
There’s a method ``Object.defineProperties(obj, descriptors)`` that allows to define many properties at once.
```js
Object.defineProperties(user, {
  name: { value: "John", writable: false },
  surname: { value: "Smith", writable: false },
  // ...
});
```
- ``Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptors(obj)``
To get all property descriptors at once, we can use the method ``Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptors(obj)``.

When we clone an object we do not copy flags , we do something like 
```js
for (let key in user) {
  clone[key] = user[key]
}
```
…But that does not copy flags. So if we want a “better” clone then ``Object.defineProperties`` is preferred.

Another difference is that ``for..in`` ignores ``symbolic`` and ``non-enumerable`` properties, but ``Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptors`` returns all property descriptors including symbolic and non-enumerable ones.

Done like this :
`` let clone = Object.defineProperties({}, Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptors(obj)); ``
Together with ``Object.defineProperties`` it can be used as a “flags-aware” way of cloning an object.


### Sealing an object globally

Property descriptors work at the level of individual properties.

There are also methods that limit access to the whole object:

``Object.preventExtensions(obj)``
Forbids the addition of new properties to the object.

``Object.seal(obj)``
Forbids adding/removing of properties. Sets configurable: false for all existing properties.

``Object.freeze(obj)``
Forbids adding/removing/changing of properties. Sets configurable: false, writable: false for all existing properties.

And also there are tests for them:

``Object.isExtensible(obj)``
Returns false if adding properties is forbidden, otherwise true.

``Object.isSealed(obj)``
Returns true if adding/removing properties is forbidden, and all existing properties have configurable: false.

``Object.isFrozen(obj)``
Returns true if adding/removing/changing properties is forbidden, and all current properties are configurable: false, writable: false.
