## Automated Testing with Mocha 

Automated testing means that tests are written separately, in addition to the code. They run our functions in various ways and compare results with the expected.

### Behavior Driven Development (BDD)
Let’s start with a technique named Behavior Driven Development or, in short, BDD.
BDD is three things in one: tests AND documentation AND examples.
To understand BDD, we’ll examine a practical case of development.

- **Development of “pow”: the spec**
Let’s say we want to make a function pow(x, n) that raises x to an integer power n. We assume that n≥0.
Before creating the code of pow, we can imagine what the function should do and describe it.

Such description is called a specification or, in short, a spec, and contains descriptions of use cases together with tests for them, like this:
```JS
describe("pow", function() {

  it("raises to n-th power", function() {
    assert.equal(pow(2, 3), 8);
  });

});
```
A spec has three main building blocks that you can see above:
describe("title", function() { ... })
What functionality we’re describing. In our case we’re describing the function pow. Used to group “workers” – the it blocks.

```it("use case description", function() { ... })```
In the title of it we in a human-readable way describe the particular use case, and the second argument is a function that tests it.

```assert.equal(value1, value2)```
The code inside it block, if the implementation is correct, should execute without errors.
Functions assert.* are used to check whether pow works as expected.

### The development flow
The flow of development usually looks like this:

1. An initial spec is written, with tests for the most basic functionality.
2. An initial implementation is created.
3. To check whether it works, we run the testing framework Mocha (more details soon) that runs the spec. While the functionality is not complete, errors are displayed. We make corrections until everything works.
4. Now we have a working initial implementation with tests.
5. We add more use cases to the spec, probably not yet supported by the implementations. Tests start to fail.
6. Go to 3, update the implementation till tests give no errors.
7. Repeat steps 3-6 till the functionality is ready.

So, the development is iterative. We write the spec, implement it, make sure tests pass, then write more tests, make sure they work etc.

- we’ll be using the following JavaScript libraries for tests:

 **Mocha** – the core framework: it provides common testing functions including describe and it and the main function that runs tests.
**Chai** – the library with many assertions. It allows to use a lot of different assertions, for now we need only assert.equal.
**Sinon** – a library to spy over functions, emulate built-in functions and more

When assert triggers an error, the ```it``` block immediately terminates. So, in the first variant if the first assert fails, then we’ll never see the result of the second assert.

##  how to make our modern code work on older engines that don’t understand recent features yet?

There are two tools for that:

1. Transpilers.
2. Polyfills.

### Transpilers
A transpiler is a special piece of software that translates source code to another source code. It can parse (“read and understand”) modern code and rewrite it using older syntax constructs, so that it’ll also work in outdated engines.  
E.g. JavaScript before year 2020 didn’t have the “nullish coalescing operator” ??. So, if a visitor uses an outdated browser, it may fail to understand the code like height = height ?? 100.

A transpiler would analyze our code and rewrite height ?? 100 into (height !== undefined && height !== null) ? height : 100.

### Polyfills
New language features may include not only syntax constructs and operators, but also built-in functions.

For example, Math.trunc(n) is a function that “cuts off” the decimal part of a number, e.g Math.trunc(1.23) returns 1.

A script that updates/adds new functions is called “polyfill”. It “fills in” the gap and adds missing implementations.
When assert triggers an error, the ```it``` block immediately terminates. So, in the first variant if the first assert fails, then we’ll never see the result of the second assert.
