## Rest Parameters and spread syntax

Many JavaScript built-in functions support an arbitrary number of arguments.

For instance:
Math.max(arg1, arg2, ..., argN) – returns the greatest of the arguments.
Object.assign(dest, src1, ..., srcN) – copies properties from src1..N into dest.
…and so on.

Suppose we have a function like:
```js
function sum(a,b){
    return a + b;
}
// Now even if we call it like:

sum (1,2,3,4);
// It won't give an error but result of only 1 and 2 will be returned.

// To make it accept any number of arguments
function sumAll(...args) { // args is the name for the array
  let sum = 0;

  for (let arg of args) sum += arg;

  return sum;
}
// this will accept any number of arguments

```

There is also a special ``arguments`` variable
```js
function showName() {
  alert( arguments.length );
  alert( arguments[0] );
  alert( arguments[1] );

  // it's iterable
  // for(let arg of arguments) alert(arg);
}

// shows: 2, Julius, Caesar
showName("Julius", "Caesar");
``` 

Though ``arguments`` is iterable it is not array.

Arrow functions do not have ``arguments``

``...`` when used as a parameter it tells to be used as rest while in a function call it tells it to be spread parameter. 


## Spread Syntax

It looks similar to rest parameters, also using ..., but does quite the opposite.
When ``...arr`` is used in the function call, it “expands” an iterable object ``arr`` into the list of arguments.
```js
let str = "Hello";

alert( [...str] ); // H,e,l,l,o
```
The spread syntax internally uses iterators to gather elements, the same way as ``for..of`` does.

So, for a string, ``for..of`` returns characters and ...str becomes ``"H","e","l","l","o"``. The list of characters is passed to array initializer [...str].

- There’s a subtle difference between ``Array.from(obj)`` and ``[...obj]``:

``Array.from`` operates on both array-likes and iterables.
The ``spread`` syntax works only with iterables.

while expanding using spread to capture it in array we do like 
```js
let str = 'Hello' ;
let strArr = [...str];
```
Basically we are passing the list to array intializer. 

Spread syntax is also used for copying objects and arrays;
```js
let obj = { a: 1, b: 2, c: 3 };
let objCopy = { ...obj , d: 6};
```