## Function Objects and NFE

In JavaScript, functions are objects.
A good way to imagine functions is as callable ``“action objects”``. We can not only call them, but also treat them as objects: add/remove properties, pass by reference etc.

## The “name” property
Example: 
```js
function sayHi() {
  alert("Hi");
}

alert(sayHi.name); // sayHi
```
Name-assigning logic is smart it assigns a name even if it is not given. 
```js 
let sayHi = function() {
  alert("Hi");
};

alert(sayHi.name); // sayHi (there's a name!)
```
This is called _contextual name_. If the function does not provide one, then in an assignment it is figured out from the context.

Object methods have name too: 
```js
let user = {
  sayHi(){
    console.log(this.sayHi.name) // this in a method refers to the object 
  }
}

user.sayHi(); //sayHi
```

There may be cases where assigning name is not possible and is hence left empty.

## The Length Property
There is another built-in property “length” that returns the number of function parameters. 
```js
function f1(a) {}
function f2(a, b) {}
function many(a, b, ...more) {}

alert(f1.length); // 1
alert(f2.length); // 2
alert(many.length); // 2
```
## Custom Properties
We can also add our own properties. 
```js
function sayHi() {
  alert("Hi");

  // let's count how many times we run
  sayHi.counter++;
}
sayHi.counter = 0; // initial value

sayHi(); // Hi
sayHi(); // Hi

alert( `Called ${sayHi.counter} times` ); // Called 2 times
```
 _A property is not a variable_
- A property assigned to a function like ``sayHi.counter = 0`` does not define a local variable counter inside it. In other words, a property counter and a variable ``let counter`` are two unrelated things.

_We can treat a function as an object, store properties in it, but that has no effect on its execution. Variables are not function properties and vice versa._ These are just parallel worlds.

## Named Function Expression
Named Function Expression, or NFE, is a term for Function Expressions that have a name.

For instance, let’s take an ordinary Function Expression:
```js
let sayHi = function func(who) {
  alert(`Hello, ${who}`);
};
```