## Basic Operators, Maths

**Operand**  
Operands are those on which operators are applied on.  

**Unary**  
Operator which works only one operand.  
 Example 
 ```JS
 const count = 0 ;
 count++;
 ```

  - ### Maths
The following math operations are supported:
``
Addition +,  
Subtraction -,  
Multiplication *,  
Division /,  
Remainder %,  
Exponentiation **  -> Raises to power ``` a ** b ```
``
 - Notes 
 If any of the operand is a string then other value becomes ``string`` too while concatenating.
 ```JS
 const result = '1' + 1 ;// 11
 ```

 The binary ```+``` is the only operator that supports ``strings`` in such a way. Other arithmetic operators work only with numbers and always convert their operands to numbers.

Here’s the demo for subtraction and division:
```JS
alert( 6 - '2' ); // 4, converts '2' to a number
alert( '6' / '2' ); // 3, converts both operands to numbers
```

If ```+``` is put infront of a number it doesn't affect it but putting it before a string makes that string a number.
```JS
const stringNumber = "26"
+stringNumber; // 26
```

### Increment Decrement 
Increment/decrement can only be applied to variables. Trying to use it on a value like ``5++`` will give an error.
The operators ``++`` and ``--`` can be placed either before or after a variable.

When the operator goes after the variable, it is in “postfix form”: ``counter++``.
The “prefix form” is when the operator goes before the variable: ``++counter``.

We can only see the difference between postfix and prefix form if we use the returned value of ++/--.

As we know, all operators return a value. Increment/decrement is no exception. The prefix form returns the new value while the postfix form returns the old value (prior to increment/decrement).

To see the difference, here’s an example:
```js
let counter = 1;
let a = ++counter; // (*)

alert(a); // 2
```

In the line (*), the prefix form ++counter increments counter and returns the new value, 2. So, the alert shows 2.

Now, let’s use the postfix form:
```js
let counter = 1;
let a = counter++; // (*) changed ++counter to counter++

alert(a); // 1
```

To summarize:

If the result of increment/decrement is not used, there is no difference in which form to use:
```js
let counter = 0;
counter++;
++counter;
alert( counter ); // 2, the lines above did the same
```
If we’d like to increase a value and immediately use the result of the operator, we need the prefix form:
```js
let counter = 0;
alert( ++counter ); // 1
```
If we’d like to increment a value but use its previous value, we need the postfix form:
```js
let counter = 0;
alert( counter++ ); // 0
```

### Bitwise Not(~)
The bitwise NOT operator (``~``) inverts the bits of its operand. Like other bitwise operators, it converts the operand to a 32-bit signed integer

```js
const a = 5;     // 00000000000000000000000000000101
const b = -3;    // 11111111111111111111111111111101

console.log(~a); // 11111111111111111111111111111010
// expected output: -6

console.log(~b); // 00000000000000000000000000000010
// expected output: 2
```

The 32-bit signed integer operand is inverted according to [two's complement](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Two%27s_complement). That is, the presence of the most significant bit is used to express negative integers.

Bitwise ``NOT``ing any number x yields ``-(x + 1)``. For example, ``~-5`` yields 4.

### Bitwise AND(&), OR(|) , XOR(^) 

- bitwise AND(&) 
The bitwise ``AND`` operator (&) returns a 1 in each bit position for which the corresponding bits of both operands are 1s.
```js
const a = 5;        // 00000000000000000000000000000101
const b = 3;        // 00000000000000000000000000000011

console.log(a & b); // 00000000000000000000000000000001
// expected output: 1
```
The operands are converted to 32-bit integers and expressed by a series of bits (zeroes and ones). Numbers with more than 32 bits get their most significant bits discarded. For example, the following integer with more than 32 bits will be converted to a 32-bit integer:
```
Before: 11100110111110100000000000000110000000000001
After:              10100000000000000110000000000001
```
Each bit in the first operand is paired with the corresponding bit in the second operand: first bit to first bit, second bit to second bit, and so on.

The bitwise ``AND`` assignment operator (``&=``) uses the binary representation of both operands, does a bitwise AND operation on them and assigns the result to the variable.
``
x &= y // x = x & y
``

- bitwise OR(|)
The bitwise OR operator (``|``) returns a 1 in each bit position for which the corresponding bits of either or both operands are 1s.

The bitwise OR assignment operator (``|=``) uses the binary representation of both operands, does a bitwise ``OR`` operation on them and assigns the result to the variable.

- bitwise XOR(^)
The bitwise XOR operator (^) returns a 1 in each bit position for which the corresponding bits of either but not both operands are 1s.
```js
const a = 5;        // 00000000000000000000000000000101
const b = 3;        // 00000000000000000000000000000011

console.log(a ^ b); // 00000000000000000000000000000110
// expected output: 6
```
The bitwise XOR assignment operator (^=) uses the binary representation of both operands, does a bitwise XOR operation on them and assigns the result to the variable.

### Left shift
The left shift operator ``(<<)`` shifts the first operand the specified number of bits to the left. Excess bits shifted off to the left are discarded. Zero bits are shifted in from the right.

```js
const a = 5;         // 00000000000000000000000000000101
const b = 2;         // 00000000000000000000000000000010

console.log(a << b); // 00000000000000000000000000010100
// expected output: 20
```
Bitwise shifting any number x to the left by y bits yields`` x * 2 ** y``. So e.g.: 9 << 3 translates to: 9 * (2 ** 3) = 9 * (8) = 72.


The left shift assignment operator (<<=) moves the specified amount of bits to the left and assigns the result to the variable.


### Right shift
The right shift operator ``(>>)`` shifts the first operand the specified number of bits to the right. Excess bits shifted off to the right are discarded. Copies of the leftmost bit are shifted in from the left. Since the new leftmost bit has the same value as the previous leftmost bit, the sign bit (the leftmost bit) does not change. Hence the name "sign-propagating".
```js
const a = 5;          //  00000000000000000000000000000101
const b = 2;          //  00000000000000000000000000000010
const c = -5;         // -00000000000000000000000000000101

console.log(a >> b);  //  00000000000000000000000000000001
// expected output: 1

console.log(c >> b);  // -00000000000000000000000000000010
// expected output: -2
```
 - Unsigned Right shift(>>>)(Zero-fill)
The unsigned right shift operator ``(>>>)`` (zero-fill right shift) shifts the first operand the specified number of bits to the right.
```js
const a = 5;          //  00000000000000000000000000000101
const b = 2;          //  00000000000000000000000000000010
const c = -5;         //  11111111111111111111111111111011

console.log(a >>> b); //  00000000000000000000000000000001
// expected output: 1

console.log(c >>> b); //  00111111111111111111111111111110
// expected output: 1073741822
```
