## Comparisons

### String comparison
To see whether a string is greater than another, JavaScript uses the so-called “dictionary” or “lexicographical” order.

In other words, strings are compared letter-by-letter.

For example:
```js
alert( 'Z' > 'A' ); // true
alert( 'Glow' > 'Glee' ); // true
alert( 'Bee' > 'Be' ); // true
```
The algorithm to compare two strings is simple:
``
1. Compare the first character of both strings.
2. If the first character from the first string is greater (or less) than the other string’s, then the first string is greater (or less) than the second. We’re done.
3. Otherwise, if both strings’ first characters are the same, compare the second characters the same way.
4. Repeat until the end of either string.
5. If both strings end at the same length, then they are equal. Otherwise, the longer string is greater.
``

### Comparison of different types
When comparing values of different types, JavaScript converts the values to numbers.

For example:
```js
alert( '2' > 1 ); // true, string '2' becomes a number 2
alert( '01' == 1 ); // true, string '01' becomes a number 1
```
- A strict equality operator ``===`` checks the equality without type conversion.

In other words, if a and b are of different types, then`` a === b ``immediately returns false without an attempt to convert them.

Let’s try it:
```js
alert( 0 === false ); // false, because the types are different
```

- A funny consequence
It is possible that at the same time:

Two values are equal.
One of them is true as a boolean and the other one is false as a boolean.
For example:
```js
let a = 0;
alert( Boolean(a) ); // false

let b = "0";
alert( Boolean(b) ); // true

alert(a == b); // true!
```
From JavaScript’s standpoint, this result is quite normal. An equality check converts values using the numeric conversion (hence "0" becomes 0), while the explicit Boolean conversion uses another set of rules.

### Comparison with null and undefined

- For a strict equality check ``===``
These values are different, because each of them is a different type.
```
alert( null === undefined ); // false
```

For a non-strict check ``==``
There’s a special rule. These two are a “sweet couple”: they equal each other (in the sense of ==), but not any other value.
```
alert( null == undefined ); // true
```

For maths and other comparisons ``< > <= >=``
``null/undefined`` are converted to numbers: ``null`` becomes ``0``, while ``undefined`` becomes ``NaN``.

### Strange result: null vs 0
Let’s compare null with a zero:
```js
alert( null > 0 );  // (1) false
alert( null == 0 ); // (2) false
alert( null >= 0 ); // (3) true
```
Mathematically, that’s strange. The last result states that "null is greater than or equal to zero", so in one of the comparisons above it must be true, but they are both false.

The reason is that an equality check`` ==`` and comparisons ``> < >= <=`` work differently. Comparisons convert ``null`` to a number, treating it as 0. That’s why (3) ``null >= 0`` is ``true`` and (1) ``null > 0`` is ``false``.

On the other hand, the equality check ``==`` for ``undefined`` and ``null`` is defined such that, without any conversions, they equal each other and don’t equal anything else. That’s why (2) ``null == 0`` is false.`