## Logical Operators

There are four logical operators in JavaScript: || (OR), && (AND), ! (NOT), ?? (Nullish Coalescing). 

### || OR 
OR ``"||"`` finds the first truthy value.

Given multiple OR’ed values:

``result = value1 || value2 || value3;``
The ``OR ||`` operator does the following:

- Evaluates operands from left to right.
- For each operand, converts it to boolean. If the result is true, stops and returns the original value of that operand.
- If all operands have been evaluated (i.e. all were false), returns the last operand.
A value is returned in its original form, without the conversion.

In other words, a chain of OR || returns the first truthy value or the last one if no truthy value is found.

#### This leads to some interesting usage compared to a “pure, classical, boolean-only OR”.

1. Getting the first truthy value from a list of variables or expressions.

For instance, we have firstName, lastName and nickName variables, all optional (i.e. can be undefined or have falsy values).

Let’s use ``OR ||`` to choose the one that has the data and show it (or "Anonymous" if nothing set):
```js
let firstName = "";
let lastName = "";
let nickName = "SuperCoder";

alert( firstName || lastName || nickName || "Anonymous"); // SuperCoder
```
If all variables were falsy, "Anonymous" would show up.

2. Short-circuit evaluation.

Another feature of OR  ``||`` operator is the so-called “short-circuit” evaluation.

It means that ``||`` processes its arguments until the first truthy value is reached, and then the value is returned immediately, without even touching the other argument.

The importance of this feature becomes obvious if an operand isn’t just a value, but an expression with a side effect, such as a variable assignment or a function call.

In the example below, only the second message is printed:
```js
true || alert("not printed");
false || alert("printed");
```
In the first line, the OR ``||`` operator stops the evaluation immediately upon seeing ``true``, so the alert isn’t run.

Sometimes, people use this feature to execute commands only if the condition on the left part is falsy.

### && (AND)
The AND operator is represented with two ampersands &&: ```result = a && b;```

AND ``“&&”`` finds the first falsy value
Given multiple AND’ed values:
```js
result = value1 && value2 && value3;
```
The ``AND &&`` operator does the following:

1. Evaluates operands from left to right.
2. For each operand, converts it to a boolean. If the result is false, stops and returns the original value of that operand.
3. If all operands have been evaluated (i.e. all were truthy), returns the last operand.
In other words, AND returns the first falsy value or the last value if none were found.

The rules above are similar to OR. The difference is that AND returns the first falsy value while OR returns the first truthy one.

### ! (NOT)
The precedence of NOT ! is the highest of all logical operators, so it always executes first, before && or ||.

The boolean NOT operator is represented with an exclamation sign !.