# Methods of Primitives

JavaScript allows us to work with primitives (``strings``, ``numbers``, etc.) as if they were objects. They also provide methods to call as such.

One of the best things about ``objects`` is that we can store a function as one of its properties.
```js
let john = {
  name: "John",
  sayHi: function() {
    alert("Hi buddy!");
  }
};

john.sayHi(); // Hi buddy!
```

## A primitive as an object
Here’s the paradox faced by the creator of JavaScript:

There are many things one would want to do with a primitive like a ``string`` or a ``number``. It would be great to access them using methods.
- Primitives must be as fast and lightweight as possible.
- The solution looks a little bit awkward, but here it is:

Primitives are still primitive. A single value, as desired.
- The language allows access to methods and properties of strings, numbers, booleans and symbols.
- In order for that to work, a special “object wrapper” that provides the extra functionality is created, and then is destroyed.
- The “object wrappers” are different for each primitive type and are called: String, Number, Boolean and Symbol, BigInt. Thus, they provide different sets of methods.

For instance, there exists a string method ``str.toUpperCase()`` that returns a capitalized str.

Here’s how it works:
```js
let str = "Hello";

alert( str.toUpperCase() ); // HELLO
```
Here’s what actually happens in ``str.toUpperCase()``:

1. The string ``str`` is a primitive. So in the moment of accessing its property, a special object is created that knows the value of the string, and has useful methods, like ``toUpperCase()``.
2. That method runs and returns a new ``string`` (shown by alert).
3. The special object is destroyed, leaving the primitive str alone.
