# Strings 
In JavaScript, the textual data is stored as strings. There is no separate type for a single character.

Advantage of using backticks is that they allow a string to span multiple lines:
```js
let guestList = `Guests:
 * John
 * Pete
 * Mary
`;

alert(guestList); // a list of guests, multiple lines
```
It is still possible to create multiline strings with single and double quotes by using a so-called “newline character”, written as ``\n``, which denotes a line break:
```js
let guestList = "Guests:\n * John\n * Pete\n * Mary";

alert(guestList); // a multiline list of guests
```

Length is a property of and not a method 
```js
const str='Tushar'
console.log(str.length);
console.log(str.length()); // would not work
```

We can acess characters in string like 
```js
const str='Tushar'
console.log(str[0]); //T
console.log(str.charAt(0)); // T
```
The only difference between them is that if no character is found, ``[]`` returns undefined, and ``charAt`` returns an empty string.

Strings are immutable. The workaround is to create a new string and assign the new value there.
We cannot replace ``str[0] = 'i'`` it wont change the string;
```js 
let str = 'Hi';

str = 'h' + str[1]; // replace the string

alert( str ); // hi
```
## Searching for a substring
**str.indexOf**
The first method is ``str.indexOf(substr, pos)``.

It looks for the ``substr`` in str, starting from the given position ``pos``, and returns the position where the match was found or -1 if nothing can be be found.

```js
let str = 'Widget with id';

alert( str.indexOf('Widget') ); // 0, because 'Widget' is found at the beginning
alert( str.indexOf('widget') ); // -1, not found, the search is case-sensitive

alert( str.indexOf("id") ); // 1, "id" is found at the position 1 (..idget with id)
```
It returns the first positon at which the word appears.

Also we have something like ```str.lastIndexOf(substr, position)```

## The bitwise NOT trick
One of the old tricks used here is the bitwise ``NOT ~`` operator. It converts the number to a 32-bit integer (removes the decimal part if exists) and then reverses all bits in its binary representation.

In practice, that means a simple thing: for 32-bit integers`` ~n equals -(n+1)``.

For instance:
```js
alert( ~2 ); // -3, the same as -(2+1)
alert( ~1 ); // -2, the same as -(1+1)
alert( ~0 ); // -1, the same as -(0+1)
alert( ~-1 ); // 0, the same as -(-1+1)
```

We have other methods such as ``includes``, ``startsWith``, ``endsWith``.

## Getting a substring
There are 3 methods in JavaScript to get a substring: ``substring``, ``substr`` and ``slice``.
```str.slice(start [, end])```
Returns the part of the string from start to (but not including) end.
Negative values for start/end are also possible. They mean the position is counted from the string end:
```js
let str = "stringify";

// start at the 4th position from the right, end at the 1st from the right
alert( str.slice(-4, -1) ); // 'gif'
```

```str.substring(start [, end])```
Returns the part of the string between start and end.

```str.substr(start [, length])```
Returns the part of the string from start, with the given length.

## Comparing Strings
strings are compared character-by-character in alphabetical order.

Although, there are some oddities.

A lowercase letter is always greater than the uppercase:

```alert( 'a' > 'Z' ); // true```

Letters with diacritical marks are “out of order”:
```alert( 'Österreich' > 'Zealand' ); // true```

All strings are encoded using`` UTF-16``. That is: each character has a corresponding numeric code. There are special methods that allow to get the character for the code and back.

```str.codePointAt(pos)```
Returns the code for the character at position pos:
```js
// different case letters have different codes
alert( "z".codePointAt(0) ); // 122
alert( "Z".codePointAt(0) ); // 90
String.fromCodePoint(code)
```

Creates a character by its numeric code
```js
alert( String.fromCodePoint(90) ); // Z
//We can also add Unicode characters by their codes using \u followed by the hex code:

// 90 is 5a in hexadecimal system
alert( '\u005a' ); // Z
```
The characters are compared by their numeric code. The greater code means that the character is greater. The code for a (97) is greater than the code for Z (90).

## Correct comparisons
The call ``str.localeCompare(str2)`` returns an integer indicating whether str is less, equal or greater than str2 according to the language rules:

Returns a negative number if str is less than str2.
Returns a positive number if str is greater than str2.
Returns 0 if they are equivalent.

```js
str.localeCompare(str2)
```