# Arrays
There are two syntaxes for creating an empty array:
```js
let arr = new Array();
let arr = [];
```
## Methods pop/push, shift/unshift
A queue is one of the most common uses of an array. In computer science, this means an ordered collection of elements which supports two operations:

*push* appends an element to the end.
*shift* get an element from the beginning, advancing the queue, so that the 2nd element becomes the 1st.

There’s another use case for arrays – the data structure named ```stack```.

It supports two operations:
*push* adds an element to the end.
*pop* takes an element from the end.
So new elements are added or taken always from the “end”.

push, pop work at the end by inserting and removing elements from back while shift and unshift work at beginning of array by removing and inserting element respectively.

## Internals
An array is a special kind of object. The square brackets used to access a property arr[0] actually come from the object syntax. That’s essentially the same as obj[key], where arr is the object, while numbers are used as keys.
Because arrays are objects at their base. We can add any properties to them.

But the engine will see that we’re working with the array as with a regular object. Array-specific optimizations are not suited for such cases and will be turned off, their benefits disappear.

## Performance
Methods push/pop run fast, while shift/unshift are slow.

## Looping 

### ```for..of```
```js
let fruits = ["Apple", "Orange", "Plum"];

// iterates over array elements
for (let fruit of fruits) {
  alert( fruit );
}
```
The ```for..of``` doesn’t give access to the number of the current element, just its value, but in most cases that’s enough. And it’s shorter.

### ```for..in```
Technically, because arrays are objects, it is also possible to use for..in:
```js
let arr = ["Apple", "Orange", "Pear"];

for (let key in arr) {
  alert( arr[key] ); // Apple, Orange, Pear
}
```
But that’s actually a bad idea. There are potential problems with it:

The loop for..in iterates over all properties, not only the numeric ones.
The ```for..in``` loop is optimized for generic objects

### Length
The length property automatically updates when we modify the array. To be precise, it is actually not the count of values in the array, but the greatest numeric index plus one.

For instance, a single element with a large index gives a big length:
```js
let fruits = [];
fruits[123] = "Apple";

alert( fruits.length ); // 124
```

## toString
Arrays have their own implementation of toString method that returns a comma-separated list of elements.

For instance:
```js
let arr = [1, 2, 3];

alert( arr ); // 1,2,3
alert( String(arr) === '1,2,3' ); // true
```
Also, let’s try this:
```js
alert( [] + 1 ); // "1"
alert( [1] + 1 ); // "11"
alert( [1,2] + 1 ); // "1,21"
```
Arrays do not have ```Symbol.toPrimitive```, neither a viable valueOf, they implement only toString conversion, so here [] becomes an empty string, [1] becomes "1" and [1,2] becomes "1,2".

When the binary plus "+" operator adds something to a string, it converts it to a string as well, so the next step looks like this:
```js
alert( "" + 1 ); // "1"
alert( "1" + 1 ); // "11"
alert( "1,2" + 1 ); // "1,21"
```
Arrays in JavaScript, unlike some other programming languages, shouldn’t be compared with operator ==.

This operator has no special treatment for arrays, it works with them as with any objects.

Let’s recall the rules:

- Two objects are equal == only if they’re references to the same object.
- If one of the arguments of == is an object, and the other one is a primitive, then the object gets converted to primitive, as explained in the chapter Object to primitive conversion.
…With an exception of null and undefined that equal == each other and nothing else.

