# Weak Map and Weak Sets 

JavaScript engine keeps a value in memory while it is “reachable” and can potentially be used.

Usually, properties of an object or elements of an array or another data structure are considered reachable and kept in memory while that data structure is in memory.

For instance, if we put an object into an array, then while the array is alive, the object will be alive as well, even if there are no other references to it.

Like this:
```js
let john = { name: "John" };

let array = [ john ];

john = null; // overwrite the reference

// the object previously referenced by john is stored inside the array
// therefore it won't be garbage-collected
// we can get it as array[0]
```

Similar to that, if we use an object as the key in a regular Map, then while the Map exists, that object exists as well. It occupies memory and may not be garbage collected.

For instance:
```js
let john = { name: "John" };

let map = new Map();
map.set(john, "...");

john = null; // overwrite the reference

// john is stored inside the map,
// we can get it by using map.keys()
```
WeakMap is fundamentally different in this aspect. It doesn’t prevent garbage-collection of key objects.
The first difference between Map and WeakMap is that keys must be objects, not primitive values:
```js
let weakMap = new WeakMap();

let obj = {};

weakMap.set(obj, "ok"); // works fine (object key)

// can't use a string as the key
weakMap.set("test", "Whoops"); // Error, because "test" is not an object
```
Now, if we use an object as the key in it, and there are no other references to that object – it will be removed from memory (and from the map) automatically.
```js
let john = { name: "John" };

let weakMap = new WeakMap();
weakMap.set(john, "...");

john = null; // overwrite the reference

// john is removed from memory!
```
WeakMap does not support iteration and methods keys(), values(), entries(), so there’s no way to get all keys or values from it.

WeakMap has only the following methods:
``
weakMap.get(key)
weakMap.set(key, value)
weakMap.delete(key)
weakMap.has(key)
``

## Weak Set
WeakSet behaves similarly:
It is analogous to Set, but we may only add objects to WeakSet (not primitives).
An object exists in the set while it is reachable from somewhere else.
Like Set, it supports add, has and delete, but not size, keys() and no iterations.