## bject.keys(), values, entries
Previously we saw methods ``map.keys()``, ``map.values()``, ``map.entries()``.

These methods are generic, there is a common agreement to use them for data structures. If we ever create a data structure of our own, we should implement them too.

They are supported for:

Map
Set
Array
Plain objects also support similar methods, but the syntax is a bit different.

```Object.keys, values, entries ```   
For plain objects, the following methods are available:  
``
Object.keys(obj) – returns an array of keys.      
Object.values(obj) – returns an array of values.    
Object.entries(obj) – returns an array of [key, value] pairs.    
``

``Object. * returns a real array rather than an iterable.``

**Object.keys/values/entries ignore symbolic properties**
Just like a ``for..in`` loop, these methods ignore properties that use ``Symbol(...)`` as keys.

Usually that’s convenient. But if we want symbolic keys too, then there’s a separate method ``Object.getOwnPropertySymbols`` that returns an array of only symbolic keys. Also, there exist a method ``Reflect.ownKeys(obj)`` that returns all keys.

### Transforming objects
Objects lack many methods that exist for arrays, e.g. map, filter and others.

If we’d like to apply them, then we can use Object.entries followed by Object.fromEntries:

1. Use ``Object.entries(obj)`` to get an array of key/value pairs from obj.
2. Use array methods on that array, e.g. map, to transform these key/value pairs.
3. Use ``Object.fromEntries(array)`` on the resulting array to turn it back into an object.