## Date and Time

### Creation
To create a new Date object call ``new Date()`` with one of the following arguments:
``new Date()``
```js
//Without arguments – create a Date object for the current date and time:
let now = new Date();
alert( now ); // shows current date/time
```

``new Date(timestamp)``
```js
let nowMod = new Date(24 * 3600 * 1000); // add 24 hours to  01.01.1970 UTC+0 24 * 3600 = number of seconds * 1000 = milliseconds
// 1635070417844 timestamp 
```

- An integer number representing the number of milliseconds that has passed since the beginning of 1970 is called a __timestamp__.
We can always create date using the timestamp. 
Like Example: 
```js
console.log(new Date(1635070417844));
```

`` new Date(dateString)``
If there is a single argument, and it’s a string, then it is parsed automatically. The algorithm is the same as ``Date.parse``
```js
let date = new Date("2017-01-26"); // yyyy-mm-dd
alert(date);
```

``new Date(year, month, date, hours, minutes, seconds, ms)``
Create the date with the given components in the local time zone. Only the first two arguments are obligatory.

- The year must have 4 digits: 2013 is okay, 98 is not.
- The month count starts with 0 (Jan), up to 11 (Dec).
- The date parameter is actually the day of month, if absent then 1 is assumed.
- If hours/minutes/seconds/ms is absent, they are assumed to be equal 0.
```js
new Date(2011, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0); // 1 Jan 2011, 00:00:00
new Date(2011, 0, 1); // the same, hours etc are 0 by default
```

We can also access year, month and day from date objects.

**getFullYear()**
Get the year (4 digits)
**getMonth()**
Get the month, from 0 to 11.
**getDate()**
Get the day of month, from 1 to 31, the name of the method does look a little bit strange.
**getHours(), getMinutes(), getSeconds(), getMilliseconds()**
Get the corresponding time components.
**getDay()**
returns day of the week
**getTime()**
Returns the timestamp for the date – a number of milliseconds passed from the January 1st of 1970 UTC+0.
**getTimezoneOffset()**
Get the difference between local timezone and UTC timezone.


### Setting date components
The following methods allow to set date/time components:
``
setFullYear(year, [month], [date])
setMonth(month, [date])
setDate(date)
setHours(hour, [min], [sec], [ms])
setMinutes(min, [sec], [ms])
setSeconds(sec, [ms])
setMilliseconds(ms)
setTime(milliseconds) (sets the whole date by milliseconds since 01.01.1970 UTC)
``
Every one of them except ``setTime()`` has a UTC-variant, for instance: setUTCHours().

### Autocorrection
The autocorrection is a very handy feature of Date objects. We can set out-of-range values, and it will auto-adjust itself.

For instance:
```js
let date = new Date(2013, 0, 32); // 32 Jan 2013 ?!?
alert(date); // ...is 1st Feb 2013!
```

### Date.parse from a string
The method ``Date.parse(str)`` can read a date from a string.

The string format should be: ``YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ss.sssZ``, where:

**YYYY-MM-DD** – is the date: year-month-day.
The character "T" is used as the delimiter.
**HH:mm:ss.sss** – is the time: hours, minutes, seconds and milliseconds.
The optional 'Z' part denotes the time zone in the format +-hh:mm. A single letter Z would mean UTC+0.
Example: 
```js
let ms = Date.parse('2012-01-26T13:51:50.417-07:00');

alert(ms); // 1327611110417  (timestamp)
```