## JS Engine

Javascript can run anywhere and it's all possible due to Javascript runtime environment. 
[](../../images/cor-js-06.png)

Every browser has the JS runtime environment. Even Nodejs has a v8 engine which runs JS program. In chrome or other browsers they too have their own engines. V8 is written in C++. Engines are mostly written in low level languages. 

### Architecture

JS Engine takes JS code as the input and converts it into machine level language for the machine to understand. 

The code goes through three important steps: 
1. parsing
2. compilation 
3. execution

**1. Parsing** : During Parsing code is broken into tokens. 
```js
let a = 7;
--- - - -   //different tokens
```
Then comes the syntax parser whose job is to take these tokens and convert them into ``AST Abstract Syntax tree``.  
[](../../images/core-j-07.png)
This ``AST`` is then passed to the compilation phase. 
**2. Compilation** : 
Javascript has something called ``JIT`` which means ``Just In Time Compiltion``. 
  **Interpreter** : Starts executing code line by line. 
  **Compiler** : Code is compiled and optimised version is prepared 

Interpreter translates just one statement of the program at a time into machine code. Compiler scans the entire program and translates the whole of it into machine code at once.

In computing, just-in-time (JIT) compilation (also dynamic translation or run-time compilations) is a way of executing computer code that involves compilation during execution of a program (at run time) rather than before execution.

### The whole process
```
Tokenization (Parsing Phase)
     |
Creation of AST
     | 
AST passed to Interpreter 
     |
Interpretation and optimizing using compiler 
     |
Execution
```
**Working in JIT:**
Compilation and execution go hand in hand after parsing we get ``AST`` which goes to interpreter. from here it is converted from high level code to machine language and that code moves to the execution step. and while doing so it takes the help of the compiler for optimizing the code. It is not a one phase process but happens in multiple phases. it then goes for execution. 

In some engines there's ``AOT`` which is _ahead of time compilation_. The Angular ahead-of-time (AOT) compiler converts your Angular ``HTML`` and ``TypeScript`` code into efficient ``JavaScript`` code during the build phase before the browser downloads and runs that code. 

_Mark and sweep algorithm_ is used for clearing the memory heap inside the JS engine. 
V8 interpreter is known as ``Ignition``
and comiler is known as ``Turbo Fan ``
Garbage collector is known as ``orinoco``
[](../../images/core-js-08.png)

AOT: Ahead of time 
    - compilation takes place prior to running
    - compilation produces a native executable.
    Example: C  C++ Rust Go

Pure JIT: Just In Time
    - compilation takes place as the program is running 
    - source code is converted on the fly to machine code
    - An Interpreter decides to compile the code 
    Example: Python, Javascript

JIT Compilers are a mixture of interpreter and compiler 