## Synchronous and Asynchronous Javascript

Synchronous Javascript works on a single thread i.e a process at a time. 
Whereas Asynchronous behaves like multiple processes happening at a time and no one waits for the other. 

Javascript runs from top to the bottom serially. This is synchronous behaviour. 
In this synchronous system if one process gets stuck the entire system gets stuck. 
```js
let sum = 0;
console.log(" I ")
console.log(" eat ")
for(let i =0 ; i< 1999990999; i++){
    sum += i;
} // program will stop executing here
  // the soultion here is to introduce asynchroncity
console.log(" icecream ")
console.log(" with a")
console.log(" spoon ")

// Output
/* 
 I 
 eat 
 icecream 
 with a
 spoon  
 */
```

```js
// Asynchronous 
let sum = 0;
console.log(" I ")
console.log(" eat ")
setTimeout(() => {
    for(let i =0 ; i< 1999990999; i++){
    sum += i;
}
    console.log(sum)
})
 // program will stop executing here
  // the soultion here is to introduce asynchroncity
console.log(" icecream ")
console.log(" with a")
console.log(" spoon ")
// Output
/* 
 I 
 eat 
 icecream 
 with a
 spoon  
 //after few seconds
 1999981996107631000
 */
```
Now to introduce asynchronocity we can set a ``setTimeout``, so the code doesn't wait and keeps on executing the next lines leaving the cpu intensive task. The cpu intensive task will be sent to timer as it is ``setTimeout`` result will be evaluated and sent to the task queue and once stack clears it will be executed on the thread. 

Example: 
```js
    console.log(" I ")
    console.log(" eat ")
    setTimeout(() => {
        console.log(" icecream ")
    }, 3000); // setTimeout is an asynchronous function
    console.log(" with a")
    console.log(" spoon ")
 ```

The moment JS identifies an ``async`` call it puts it inside the`` web apis`` or ``timer`` or anything, processes it adds it to to the`` callback queue`` or ``task queue`` / ``microtask queue.`` then the event loop checks the stack if it's empty and if we have something in queue it executes it on the stack.

### callbacks 

```js
function one(){
    console.log("first")
}

function two(){
    console.log("second")
}

one();
two();

// first
// second
```

So these are normal functions which are being called sequentially. Now to form some kind of relation we use callbacks
```js
function one(callback){
     console.log("first")
     callback();
}

function two(){
    console.log("second")
}
one(two);
```
We can easily get into callback hells. Functions calling another function can lead to callback hell. To save from this we use promises. 

### General Asynchronous Programming Concepts

Basic idea of Asynchronous Programming is that we get the work done on thread other than main instead of waiting for the processes to end on the main thread. 

**Blocking** As Js runs sequentially from top to the bottom if there comes a task which can take time to finish executing then it can be blocking the main thread and thus freezing the whole process. 

One of the ways to achieve non-blocking behaviour is using web Workers. Web workers offer allows to send some javascript processing off to a separate thread called a ``worker`` so that we can run multiple chunks simultaneously. Web workers have their limitations they cannot manipulate the ``DOM elements.`` 

The second problem is that although code run in a worker is not blocking, it is still basically synchronous.

Features like Promises allow you to set an operation running (e.g. the fetching of an image from the server), and then wait until the result has returned before running another operation:
```
Main thread: Task A                   Task B
    Promise:      |__async operation__|
```