## Introducing Asynchronous JS

Many web API features now use Asynchronous techniques especially those that fetch some kind of resource from an external device. 

- Difficulty using asynchronous code
When you fetch an image from a server, you can't return the result immediately. That means that the following (pseudocode) wouldn't work:
```js
let response = fetch('myImage.png'); // fetch is asynchronous
let blob = response.blob();
// display your image blob in the UI somehow
```
That's because we don't know how long the image will take to download, so when we come to run the second line it will throw an error (possibly intermittently, possibly every time) because the response is not yet available. Instead, we need our code to wait until the response is returned before it tries to do anything else to it.

In old style callbacks to achieve the asynchronous behaviour we can do something like
```js
function sendBlob(){
    //It will run line by line when invoked and hence asynchronous behaviour but this will still block the main thread.
    // we can add asynchronicity using setTimeouts
  let response = fetch('myImage.png'); // fetch is asynchronous // this will block the code execution 
  let blob = response.blob();  
}
```

There are two mainly types of asynchronous code style we'll come across in JavaScript code, old-style callbacks and newer promise-style code.

### async callbacks
When we pass a callback function as an argument to another function, we are only passing the function's reference as an argument, i.e, the callback function is not executed immediately. It is “called back” asynchronously somewhere inside the containing function’s body. The containing function is responsible for executing the callback function when the time comes.

example: 
```js
function loadAsset(url, type, callback) {
  let xhr = new XMLHttpRequest();
  xhr.open('GET', url);
  xhr.responseType = type;

  xhr.onload = function() {
    callback(xhr.response);
  };

  xhr.send();
}

function displayImage(blob) {
  let objectURL = URL.createObjectURL(blob);

  let image = document.createElement('img');
  image.src = objectURL;
  document.body.appendChild(image);
}

loadAsset('coffee.jpg', 'blob', displayImage);
```

Here we have a function called loadAsset which takes url, type and callback as a parameter then we have ``displayImage`` function which will be used as a callback function. 
Then we are invoking the loadAsset Function with the arguments. So it will run loadAsset code line by line and call the displayImage callback only when the ``xhr`` loads data. 

Callbacks make sure that a function is not going to run before a task is completed but will run right after the task has completed. It helps us develop asynchronous JavaScript code and keeps us safe from problems and errors.

There are 2 types of callbacks by the way they're invoked: synchronous and asynchronous callbacks.

> The synchronous callback is executed during the execution of the higher-order function that uses the  callback.

Synchronous callbacks are blocking. The higher-order function doesn't complete its execution until the callback is done executing.

```js
function map(array, callback) {
  console.log('map() starts');
  const mappedArray = [];
  for (const item of array) { mappedArray.push(callback(item)) }
  console.log('map() completed');
  return mappedArray;
}
function greet(name) {
  console.log('greet() called');
  return `Hello, ${name}!`;
}
const persons = ['Cristina'];
map(persons, greet);
// logs 'map() starts'
// logs 'greet() called'
// logs 'map() completed'
```

The asynchronous callback is executed after the execution of the higher-order function. The asynchronous callbacks are non-blocking: the higher-order function completes its execution without waiting for the callback. The higher-order function makes sure to execute the callback later on a certain event.

The timer functions invokes the call asynchronously. 


### Ways to introduce asynchronicity
Asynchronous operation can be performed using the filesystem core module as seen in the example. Other ways of introducing asynchronicity can be

- timer functions setTimeout, setInterval
- special functions nextTick, setImmediate
- listening to network, querying a database
- reading or writing, generally I/O from a resource
- subscribing to an event

## Promises 

Promises are the new style of async code that we'll see used in modern Web APIs. 
```js
fetch('products.json').then(function(response) {
  return response.json();
}).then(function(json) {
  let products = json;
  initialize(products);
}).catch(function(err) {
  console.log('Fetch problem: ' + err.message);
});
```

``fetch`` returns a promise which can be either fulfilled or rejected if fulfilled data is returned so that next ``then`` can access it. It is just a chain of promises. 

Async operations like promises are put into an event queue, which runs after the main thread has finished processing so that they do not block subsequent JavaScript code from running. The queued operations will complete as soon as possible then return their results to the JavaScript environment.

Promises have some similarities to old-style callbacks. They are essentially a returned object to which you attach callback functions, rather than having to pass callbacks into a function.

### Problem in Asynchronous Operations

```js
console.log ('Starting'); //first
let image;

fetch('coffee.jpg')
.then((response) => {
  console.log('It worked :)') // third
  return response.blob();
  })
  .then((myBlob) => {
  let objectURL = URL.createObjectURL(myBlob);
  image = document.createElement('img');
  image.src = objectURL;
  document.body.appendChild(image);
}).catch((error) => {
  console.log('There has been a problem with your fetch operation: ' + error.message);
});

console.log ('All done!'); // second
```

What happens is that fetch is an async operation and thus doesnt block the main thread instead goes into the event queue which will only be called when main thread gets free, hence main thread goes on executing the tasks line by line. 