### Cooperative asynchronous JavaScript: Timeouts and intervals

This is about the traditional methods JavaScript has available for running code asynchronously after a set time period has elapsed, or at a regular interval.  

``setTimeout()``
Execute a specified block of code once after a specified time has elapsed.

``setInterval()``
Execute a specified block of code repeatedly with a fixed time delay between each call.

The asynchronous code set up by these functions runs on the main thread (after their specified timer has elapsed).

Any async code will execute only after the main thread is available. (In other words, when the stack is empty.)

``setTimeout()``
- A function to run, or a reference to a function defined elsewhere.
- A number representing the time interval in milliseconds (1000 milliseconds equals 1 second) to wait before executing the code. 
- Zero or more values that represent any parameters you want to pass to the function when it is run.

The callbacks we pass to these functions cannot run until the stack on the main thread is empty. As a consequence, code like ``setTimeout(fn, 0)`` will execute as soon as the stack is empty, not immediately.

The functions don't need to anonymous they can be named functions and can be called by reference. 
```js
function sayHi(){
    console.log('hi');
}
setTimeout(sayHi, 2000); 

setTimeout(() => {
    console.log('hi');
}, 2000) // both functions are same 
```

### Passing Parameters to a function 
Any parameters that we want to pass to the function being run inside the ``setTimeout()`` must be passed to it as additional parameters at the end of the list.

```js
function sayHi(name){
    console.log('hi'+ name);
}
setTimeout(sayHi, 2000, 'tushar'); 
```

``setinterval()``
``setTimeout()`` works perfectly when we need to run code once after a set period of time. 
But when we need to run the code over and over again we use ``setInterval``.

It is very much similar to ``setTimeout`` function apart from running the code at a fixed interval. 

 ``setInterval`` and ``setTimeout`` both return an identifiable value which we can use later to clear. 
```js
const myTimeout = setTimeout(() =>{

}, 2000);

clearTimeout(myTimeout);
```
