## Async and Await 

More recent additions to the JavaScript language are ``async`` functions and the ``await`` keyword, added in ECMAScript 2017. These features basically act as syntactic sugar on top of promises, making asynchronous code easier to write and to read afterwards.

``The async keyword``
First of all we have the ``async`` keyword, which we put in front of a function declaration to turn it into an ``async`` function. An async function is a function that knows how to expect the possibility of the ``await`` keyword being used to invoke asynchronous code.

one of the traits of async functions — their return values are guaranteed to be converted to promises.
```js
async hello(){
    return 'hello'
}
```
we can use arrow functions as well to create async functions
```js
let hello = async () => {
    return 'hello'
}
```
```js
async function hello() { return "Hello" };
console.log('hi')
hello().then(data => console.log(data));
console.log('HI2')

/* 
hi
HI2
hello
 */
```
To actually consume the value returned when the promise fulfills, since it is returning a promise, we could use a ``.then()`` block

```js
hello().then(data => console.log(data))

```

The ``async`` keyword is added to functions to tell them to return a promise rather than directly returning the value.

``The await keyword``
The advantage of an async function only becomes apparent when we combine it with the ``await`` keyword. ``await`` only works inside ``async`` functions within regular JavaScript code, however it can be used on its own with JavaScript modules.

we can use ``await`` when calling any function that returns a ``Promise``, including web API functions.

``await`` can be put in front of any async promise-based function to pause code on that line until the promise fulfills, then return the resulting value.

In very simple terms ``then`` block is replaced by ``await`` while using ``async/await ``