## Promise

The constructor syntax for a promise object is:
```js
let promise = new Promise(function(resolve, reject) {
  // executor (the producing code, "singer")
});
```

The function passed to ``new Promise`` is called the executor. When new Promise is created, the executor runs automatically. It contains the producing code which should eventually produce the result.

Its arguments resolve and reject are callbacks provided by JavaScript itself. Our code is only inside the executor.
The promise object returned by the new Promise constructor has these internal properties:

- state — initially "pending", then changes to either "fulfilled" when resolve is called or "rejected" when reject is called.
- result — initially undefined, then changes to value when resolve(value) called or error when reject(error) is called.

### Reject with Error objects
In case something goes wrong, the executor should call reject. That can be done with any type of argument (just like resolve). But it is recommended to use Error objects (or objects that inherit from Error). The reasoning for that will soon become apparent.

### Consumers: then, catch, finally

A Promise object serves as a link between the executor (the “producing code”) and the consuming functions, which will receive the result or error. Consuming functions can be registered (subscribed) using methods ``.then``, ``.catch`` and ``.finally``.

#### then
The most important, fundamental one is .then.

The syntax is:
```js
promise.then(
  function(result) { /* handle a successful result */ },
  function(error) { /* handle an error */ }
);

// this can be done too
promise.then((data, error) => {
    if(err){
        /* handle an error */
    }
    /* handle a successful result */
})
```
The first argument of ``.then`` is a function that runs when the promise is resolved, and receives the result.

The second argument of ``.then`` is a function that runs when the promise is rejected, and receives the error.

Example: 
```js
// reject runs the second function in .then
let promise = new Promise(function(resolve, reject) {
  setTimeout(() => reject(new Error("Whoops!")), 1000);
});

// reject runs the second function in .then
promise.then(
  result => alert(result), // doesn't run
  error => alert(error) // shows "Error: Whoops!" after 1 second
);
```

#### catch
If we’re interested only in errors, then we can use null as the first argument: .then(null, errorHandlingFunction). Or we can use .catch(errorHandlingFunction), which is exactly the same:
```js
let promise = new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
  setTimeout(() => reject(new Error("Whoops!")), 1000);
});

// .catch(f) is the same as promise.then(null, f)
promise.catch(alert); // shows "Error: Whoops!" after 1 second
```
The call ``.catch(f)`` is a complete analog of ``.then(null, f)``, it’s just a shorthand.

#### finally
The call ``.finally(f) ``is similar to ``.then(f, f)`` in the sense that`` f ``always runs when the promise is settled: be it resolve or reject.
``finally`` is a good handler for performing cleanup, e.g. stopping our loading indicators, as they are not needed anymore, no matter what the outcome is.  

Example: 
```js
new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
  /* do something that takes time, and then call resolve/reject */
})
  // runs when the promise is settled, doesn't matter successfully or not
  .finally(() => stop loading indicator)
  // so the loading indicator is always stopped before we process the result/error
  .then(result => show result, err => show error)
```

- ``finally(f)`` isn’t exactly an alias of ``then(f,f)`` though. There are few subtle differences:

A ``finally`` handler has no arguments. In ``finally`` we don’t know whether the ``promise`` is successful or not. That’s all right, as our task is usually to perform “general” finalizing procedures.

A finally handler passes through results and errors to the next handler.

For instance, here the result is passed through ``finally`` to ``catch``  :
```js
new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
  setTimeout(() => reject("result"), 2000)
})
  .finally(() => alert("Promise ready"))
  .catch(err => alert(err)); // <-- .then handles the error
```