## Promisification
It’s the conversion of a function that accepts a callback into a function that returns a promise. Such transformations are often required in real-life, as many functions and libraries are callback-based. But promises are more convenient, so it makes sense to promisify them.

In general Promisification actually means to make callbacks to work with promises or make them return inside a promise. It’s a conversion of a function that accepts a callback into a function returning a promise.

For instance, we have ``loadScript(src, callback)``
```js
function loadScript(src, callback) {
  let script = document.createElement('script');
  script.src = src;

  script.onload = () => callback(null, script);
  script.onerror = () => callback(new Error(`Script load error for ${src}`));

  document.head.append(script);
}

// usage:
// loadScript('path/script.js', (err, script) => {...})
```
The function loads a script with the given src, and then calls ``callback(err)`` in case of an error, or ``callback(null, script)`` in case of successful loading. That’s a widespread agreement for using callbacks.

We’ll make a new function ``loadScriptPromise(src)``, that does the same (loads the script), but returns a promise instead of using callbacks. This is promisification. 
we pass it only src (no callback) and get a promise in return, that resolves with script when the load is successful, and rejects with the error otherwise.
```js
let loadScriptPromise = function(src) {
  return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    loadScript(src, (err, script) => {
      if (err) reject(err);
      else resolve(script);
    });
  });
};

// usage:
// loadScriptPromise('path/script.js').then(...)
```
The new function is a wrapper around the original loadScript function. It calls it providing its own callback that translates to promise resolve/reject.

### Making a Promisify function
We may need to promisify more than one function, so it makes sense to use a helper.

We’ll call it ``promisify(f)``: it accepts a _to-promisify_ function ``f`` and returns a wrapper
function.
```js
function promisify(f) { // taking function as argument which needs to be promisified
  return function (...args) { // return a wrapper-function (*) so that when promisify is called on a function a new function is returned with a promise
    return new Promise((resolve, reject) => { // providing promise as described above
      function callback(err, result) { // our custom callback for f (**) and then will be pushed in arguments to be called
        if (err) {
          reject(err);
        } else {
          resolve(result);
        }
      }

      args.push(callback); // append our custom callback to the end of f arguments

      f.call(this, ...args); // call the original function
    });
  };
}

// usage:
let loadScriptPromise = promisify(loadScript);
loadScriptPromise(...).then(...);
```
A call to ``promisify(f)`` returns a wrapper around ``f`` (*). That wrapper returns a promise and forwards the call to the original ``f``, tracking the result in the custom callback (**).
**Why do we need to convert callbacks to promises?**

1. With callbacks, if you want to do something sequentially you will have to specify an err argument in each callback, which is redundant. In promises or async-await, you can just add a .catch method or block which will catch any errors that occurred in the promise chain
2. With callbacks, you have no control over when it's called, under what context, or how many times it's being called, which can lead to memory leaks.
3. Using promises, we control these factors (especially error handling) so the code is more readable and maintainable.

**How to make callback-based functions return a promise ?**
There are two ways to do it:

1. Wrap the function in another function which returns a promise. It then resolves or rejects based on callback arguments.
2. Promisification — We create a util/helper function promisify which will transform all error first callback-based APIs.

Example:
There’s a callback-based API which provides the sum of two numbers. We want to promisify it so it returns a thenable promise.
```js
const getSumAsync = (num1, num2, callback) => {
 
  if (!num1 || !num2) {
    return callback(new Error("Missing arguments"), null);
  }
  return callback(null, num1 + num2);
}
getSumAsync(1, 1, (err, result) => {
  if (err){
    doSomethingWithError(err)
  }else {
    console.log(result) // 2
  }
})
```

- Using Node.js's util.promisify():
```js
const { promisify } = require('util')
const getSumPromise = promisify(getSumAsync) // step 1
getSumPromise(1, 1) // step 2
.then(result => {
  console.log(result)
})
.catch(err =>{
  doSomethingWithError(err);
})
```
Nodejs has this promisify function which is transforming ``getSumAsync`` into ``getSumPromise`` which has ``.then`` and `` .catch`` methods. 