# Objects
Objects are used to store keyed collections of various data and more complex entities.  
An object can be created with figure brackets {…} with an optional list of properties. A property is a “key: value” pair, where key is a string (also called a “property name”), and value can be anything.

An empty object (“empty cabinet”) can be created using one of two syntaxes:
```JS
let user = new Object(); // "object constructor" syntax
let user = {};  // "object literal" syntax
```
Usually, the figure brackets {...} are used. That declaration is called an ``object literal``.

## Literals and properties
We can immediately put some properties into {...} as “key: value” pairs:
```JS
let user = {     // an object
  name: "John",  // by key "name" store value "John"
  age: 30        // by key "age" store value 30
};
```
A property has a key (also known as “name” or “identifier”) before the colon ":" and a value to the right of it.

In the user object, there are two properties:  
The first property has the name "name" and the value "John".
The second one has the name "age" and the value 30.

Property values are accessible using the dot notation:
```JS
// get property values of the object:
alert( user.name ); // John
alert( user.age ); // 30
```
The value can be of any type. Let’s add a boolean one:
```js
user.isAdmin = true;
```
To remove a property, we can use delete operator:
```js
delete user.age;
```
We can also use multiword property names, but then they must be quoted:
```JS
let user = {
  name: "John",
  age: 30,
  "likes birds": true  // multiword property name must be quoted
};
```

For multiword properties dot notation does not work. We need to use something like square brackets. 
```js
alert(user["like birds"]);
```

## Property value shorthand
In real code we often use existing variables as values for property names.

For instance:
```JS
function makeUser(name, age) {
  return {
    name: name,
    age: age,
    // ...other properties
  };
}

let user = makeUser("John", 30);
alert(user.name); // John
```
In the example above, properties have the same names as variables. The use-case of making a property from a variable is so common, that there’s a special property value shorthand to make it shorter.

Instead of name:name we can just write name, like this:
```JS
function makeUser(name, age) {
  return {
    name, // same as name: name
    age,  // same as age: age
    // ...
  };
}
```

For checking if property exists in an object 
```JS
if("key" in object_name)
```
