
# Objects Referencing and copying

One of the fundamental differences of objects versus primitives is that objects are stored and copied “by reference”, whereas primitive values: strings, numbers, booleans, etc – are always copied “as a whole value”.

Example: 
```js
let message = "Hello!";
let phrase = message;
```
Now both variables have their own values and do not reference the same.

A variable assigned to an object stores not the object itself, but its “address in memory” – in other words “a reference” to it.  
Example: 
```js
let user = { name: "John" };

let admin = user; // copy the reference
admin.name = 'tushar';
console.log(user.name) // tushar
```

When an object variable is copied, the reference is copied, but the object itself is not duplicated.

Two objects are equal only if they are the same object.  
For instance, here a and b reference the same object, thus they are equal:
```js
let a = {};
let b = a; // copy the reference

alert( a == b ); // true, both variables reference the same object
alert( a === b ); // true
```
And here two independent objects are not equal, even though they look alike (both are empty):
```js
let a = {};
let b = {}; // two independent objects

alert( a == b ); // false
```
## Accessing keys in an object 
```js
let obj1 = { name: "Tushar" };
let clone = {};

for(let key in obj1){
    clone[key] = obj1[key]; // key -> name
}
```  

## Cloning and merging, Object.assign

Copying an object variable creates one more reference to the same object. 
To create a clone with the same properties we can do something like 
```Object.assign```

The syntax is:
```js
Object.assign(dest, [src1, src2, src3...]) 
```
- The first argument dest is a target object.
- Further arguments src1, ..., srcN (can be as many as needed) are source objects.
- It copies the properties of all source objects src1, ..., srcN into the target dest. In other words, properties of all arguments starting from the second are copied into the first object.
- The call returns dest.
```js
// copies all properties from permissions1 and permissions2 into user
Object.assign(user, permissions1, permissions2);

let clone = Object.assign({}, user); //It copies all properties of user into the empty object and returns it.
```

## Nested Cloning 
Objects can have objects inside them and cloning them simply will copy them by reference 
Example: 
```js
let user = {
  name: "John",
  sizes: {
    height: 182,
    width: 50
  }
};

let clone = {};
Object.assign(clone, user);
clone.sizes.height++;
clone.name= "Some";
console.log(user.sizes.height); // this gets copied by reference
console.log(user.name); // name is not copied by reference  
console.log(clone.name); // since its a primitive value
```  

To fix that, we should use a cloning loop that examines each value of ``user[key]`` and, if it’s an object, then replicate its structure as well. That is called a “deep cloning”.

We can use recursion to implement it. Or, to not reinvent the wheel, take an existing implementation, for instance`` _.cloneDeep(obj)`` from the JavaScript library ``lodash.``

Const objects can be modified
An important side effect of storing objects as references is that an object declared as const can be modified.

For instance:
```JS
const user = {
  name: "John"
};

user.name = "Pete"; // (*)

alert(user.name); // Pete
```
It might seem that the line (*) would cause an error, but it does not. The value of user is constant, it must always reference the same object, but properties of that object are free to change.

In other words, the const user gives an error only if we try to set user=... as a whole.

That said, if we really need to make constant object properties, it’s also possible, but using totally different methods.