## Constructor operator, new 

The regular ``{...}`` syntax allows to create one object. But often we need to create many similar objects, like multiple users or menu items and so on.

That can be done using constructor functions and the ``new`` operator.

### Constructor function
Constructor functions technically are regular functions. There are two conventions though:

- They are named with capital letter first.
- They should be executed only with ``new`` operator.

For instance:
```JS
function User(name) {
  this.name = name;
  this.isAdmin = false;
}

let user = new User("Jack");

alert(user.name); // Jack
alert(user.isAdmin); // false
```
When a function is executed with new, it does the following steps:

1. A new empty ``object`` is created and assigned to this.
2. The function body executes. Usually it modifies this, adds new properties to it.
3. The value of this is returned.

Any function (except arrow functions, as they don’t have ``this``) can be used as a constructor. 

### Constructor mode test: new.target

Inside a function, we can check whether it was called with ``new`` or without it, using a special new.``target`` property.

It is ``undefined`` for regular calls and equals the function if called with ``new``:
```js
function User() {
  alert(new.target);
}

// without "new":
User(); // undefined

// with "new":
new User(); // function User { ... }
``` 
### Return from constructors
Usually, constructors do not have a ``return`` statement. Their task is to write all necessary stuff into this, and it automatically becomes the result.

But if there is a ``return`` statement, then the rule is simple:

- If ``return`` is called with an object, then the object is returned instead of ``this``.
- If ``return`` is called with a primitive, it’s ignored.
In other words, ``return`` with an object returns that object, in all other cases ``this`` is returned.

For instance, here ``return`` overrides ``this`` by returning an object:
```JS
function BigUser() { // a constructor function 

  this.name = "John";

  return { name: "Godzilla" };  // <-- returns this object
  // return "Godzilla"  // would be ignored
}

alert( new BigUser().name );  // Godzilla, got that object
```
- Omitting parentheses
By the way, we can omit parentheses after new, if it has no arguments:
```js
let user = new User; // <-- no parentheses
// same as
let user = new User();
Omitting parentheses here is not considered a “good style”, but the syntax is permitted by specification.
```
We can also add methods to ``this`` in our constructors. It can be added like :
```JS
function Accumulator(startingValue) {
  this.value = startingValue;

  this.read = function() {
    this.value += +prompt('How much to add?', 0);
  };
}
```

No arrow function or ```function read(){...}``` is allowed.