# Optional Chaining 
The optional chaining ```?.``` is a safe way to access nested object properties, even if an intermediate property doesn’t exist. 

Suppose we have an object user which has address property with nested property street looking like:
```JS
user = {
  name: 'Tushar',
  address: {
    street: 'some'
  }
}
```
Now in some case it may happen that ```user.address``` doesn't even exist. In that case js will throw an error. But in some cases we many want it throw undefined rather than throwing an error. 

We can use optional chaining in such cases. 
The optional chaining ?. stops the evaluation if the value before ?. is undefined or null and returns undefined.
```js
console.log(user?.address?.street)
```

works as ```user.address.street``` if user is present then address is present else returns undefined without throwing an error.


### Other variants: ?.(), ?.[]
The optional chaining ?. is not an operator, but a special syntax construct, that also works with functions and square brackets.

For example, ?.() is used to call a function that may not exist.

In the code below, some of our users have admin method, and some don’t:
```js
let userAdmin = {
  admin() {
    alert("I am admin");
  }
};

let userGuest = {};

userAdmin.admin?.(); // I am admin

userGuest.admin?.(); // nothing (no such method)
```
Here, in both lines we first use the dot (userAdmin.admin) to get admin property, because we assume that the user object exists, so it’s safe read from it.

Then ?.() checks the left part: if the admin function exists, then it runs (that’s so for userAdmin). Otherwise (for userGuest) the evaluation stops without errors.

The ?.[] syntax also works, if we’d like to use brackets [] to access properties instead of dot .. Similar to previous cases, it allows to safely read a property from an object that may not exist.