## Objects to primitive conversion

What happens when objects are added ```obj1 + obj2```, subtracted ```obj1 - obj2``` or printed using ```alert(obj)```? 
This will actually result in something like ```[object Object][object Object]```
In case of such operations, objects are auto-converted to primitives, and then the operation is carried out over these primitives and results in a primitive value.

_There are only two conversions that happen Numeric conversions and string conversions._
Rules:   
1. All objects are ``true`` in a boolean context. There are only numeric and string conversions.
2. The numeric conversion happens when we subtract objects or apply mathematical functions. For instance, Date objects can be subtracted, and the result of ``date1 - date2`` is the time difference between two dates.
3. As for the string conversion – it usually happens when we output an object with ``alert(obj)`` and in similar contexts.
We can implement string and numeric conversion by ourselves, using special object methods.

There are three variants of type conversion, that happen in various situations. They’re called “hints”.

> "string"
For an ``object-to-string`` conversion, when we’re doing an operation on an object that expects a string, like **alert:**
```js
// 1st case
// output
alert(obj);

// 2nd case
// using object as a property key
anotherObj[obj] = 123;
```

> "number"
For an ``object-to-number`` conversion, like when we’re doing maths:
```js
// explicit conversion
let num = Number(obj);

// maths (except binary plus)
let n = +obj; // unary plus
let delta = date1 - date2;

// less/greater comparison
let greater = user1 > user2;
```

> "default"
Occurs in rare cases when the operator is “not sure” what type to expect.

For instance, binary plus ``+`` can work both with`` strings`` (concatenates them) and ``numbers`` (adds them), so both ``strings`` and ``numbers`` would do. So if a binary plus gets an object as an argument, it uses the "default" hint to convert it.

Also, if an object is compared using ``==`` with a ``string``, ``number`` or a ``symbol``, it’s also unclear which conversion should be done, so the "default" hint is used.
```js
// binary plus uses the "default" hint
let total = obj1 + obj2;

// obj == number uses the "default" hint
if (user == 1) { ... };
```

The greater and less comparison operators, such as ``< >``, can work with both ``strings`` and ``numbers`` too. Still, they use the "``number``" hint, not "``default``". 

To do the conversion, JavaScript tries to find and call three object methods:
1. Call ``obj[Symbol.toPrimitive](hint)`` – the method with the symbolic key ``Symbol.toPrimitive (system symbol)``, if such method exists,
2. Otherwise if hint is "string"
`` try obj.toString()`` and ``obj.valueOf()``, whatever exists.
3. Otherwise if hint is "number" or "default"
``try obj.valueOf()`` and ``obj.toString()``, whatever exists.

**Symbol.toPrimitive**
Let’s start from the first method. There’s a built-in symbol named ``Symbol.toPrimitive`` that should be used to name the conversion method, like this:
```js
obj[Symbol.toPrimitive] = function(hint) {
  // here goes the code to convert this object to a primitive
  // it must return a primitive value
  // hint = one of "string", "number", "default"
};
```
If the method ``Symbol.toPrimitive`` exists, it’s used for all hints, and no more methods are needed.

For instance, here ``user`` object implements it:
```js
let user = {
  name: "John",
  money: 1000,

  [Symbol.toPrimitive](hint) {
    alert(`hint: ${hint}`);
    return hint == "string" ? `{name: "${this.name}"}` : this.money;
  }
};
```
```js
// conversions demo:
alert(user); // hint: string -> {name: "John"}
alert(+user); // hint: number -> 1000
alert(user + 500); // hint: default -> 1500
```
As we can see from the code, ``user`` becomes a self-descriptive string or a money amount depending on the conversion. The single method ``user[Symbol.toPrimitive]`` handles all conversion cases.

The function calling or if we put explicitly a conevrsion hints are provided from there. 

**toString/valueOf**
If there’s no ``Symbol.toPrimitive`` then JavaScript tries to find methods ``toString`` and ``valueOf``:

For the “string”`` hint: toString``, and if it doesn’t exist, then ``valueOf`` (so ``toString`` has the priority for string conversions).
For other hints: ``valueOf``, and if it doesn’t exist, then ``toString`` (so ``valueOf`` has the priority for maths).

They are not ``symbols`` (symbols did not exist that long ago), but rather “regular” string-named methods. They provide an alternative “old-style” way to implement the conversion.
These methods must return a primitive value. If ``toString`` or ``valueOf`` returns an object, then it’s ignored (same as if there were no method).

By default, a plain object has following ```toString``` and ``valueOf`` methods:

The ``toString`` method returns a string ``"[object Object]".``
The ``valueOf`` method returns the object itself.

Here’s the demo:
```js
let user = {name: "John"};

alert(user); // [object Object]
alert(user.valueOf() === user); // true
```
So if we try to use an object as a ``string``, like in an ``alert`` or so, then by default we see ``[object Object]``.

The default ``valueOf`` is mentioned here only for the sake of completeness, to avoid any confusion. As you can see, it returns the ``object`` itself, and so is ignored. 

Let’s implement these methods to customize the conversion.

For instance, here user does the same as above using a combination of ``toString`` and ``valueOf`` instead of ``Symbol.toPrimitive``:
```js
let user = {
  name: "John",
  money: 1000,

  // for hint="string"
  toString() {
    return `{name: "${this.name}"}`;
  },

  // for hint="number" or "default"
  valueOf() {
    return this.money;
  }

};

alert(user); // toString -> {name: "John"}
alert(+user); // valueOf -> 1000
alert(user + 500); // valueOf -> 1500
```