By specification, object property keys may be either of ``string`` type, or of ``symbol`` type. Not numbers, not booleans, only strings or symbols, these two types.

## Symbols

A ``symbol`` represents a unique identifier.
A value of this type can be created using ```Symbol()```:

```js
// id is a new symbol
let id = Symbol("first symbol"); // here "first symbol" is the description of this symbol. 
```

⚠ Symbols don't auto convert to string  

This alert will show an error:
```js
let id = Symbol("id");
alert(id); // TypeError: Cannot convert a Symbol value to a string
// To actually call it we will have to call it as id.toString() or use Symbol.description to show the description only. 
```

What we do with symbol is create a symbol type and then can be assigned as unique identifiers to different objects.
Example: 
```js
let symId = Symbol('Unique Id');

let admin = {
    name: "Tushar"
}

let user = {
    name: 'John'
}

admin[symId] = 1;
user[symId] = 2; 

console.log(admin[symId]); 
```

### Symbols in an object literal
If we want to use a ``symbol`` in an object literal ``{...}``, we need square brackets around it.

Like this:
```js
let id = Symbol("id");

let user = {
  name: "John",
  [id]: 123 // not "id": 123
};
```
- Symbolic properties do not participate in`` for..in ``loop.
- In contrast, ``Object.assign`` copies both ``string`` and ``symbol`` properties. 

## Global Symbols
Usually all symbols are different, even if they have the same name. But sometimes we want same-named symbols to be same entities. For instance, different parts of our application want to access symbol "id" meaning exactly the same property.

To achieve that, there exists a ``global symbol registry``. We can create symbols in it and access them later, and it guarantees that repeated accesses by the same name return exactly the same symbol.

In order to read (create if absent) a symbol from the registry, use ``Symbol.for(key)``.

That call checks the global registry, and if there’s a symbol described as key, then returns it, otherwise creates a new symbol ``Symbol(key)`` and stores it in the registry by the given key.

For instance:
```js
// read from the global registry
let id = Symbol.for("id"); // if the symbol did not exist, it is created

// read it again (maybe from another part of the code)
let idAgain = Symbol.for("id");

// the same symbol
alert( id === idAgain ); // true
```
Symbols inside the registry are called global symbols. If we want an application-wide symbol, accessible everywhere in the code – that’s what they are for.

## Symbol.keyFor
For global symbols, not only ``Symbol.for(key)`` returns a symbol by name, but there’s a reverse call: ``Symbol.keyFor(sym)``, that does the reverse: returns a name by a global symbol.

For instance:
```js
// get symbol by name
let sym = Symbol.for("name");
let sym2 = Symbol.for("id");

// get name by symbol
alert( Symbol.keyFor(sym) ); // name
alert( Symbol.keyFor(sym2) ); // id
```
The ``Symbol.keyFor`` internally uses the global symbol registry to look up the key for the symbol. So it doesn’t work for non-global symbols. If the symbol is not global, it won’t be able to find it and returns undefined.

That said, any symbols have description property.

For instance:
```js
let globalSymbol = Symbol.for("name");
let localSymbol = Symbol("name");

alert( Symbol.keyFor(globalSymbol) ); // name, global symbol
alert( Symbol.keyFor(localSymbol) ); // undefined, not global

alert( localSymbol.description ); // name
```

