### Modules, introduction
Splitting code of a single application in different files are called modules. A module may contain a class or a library of functions for a specific purpose.  

To name some:
- AMD – one of the most ancient module systems, initially implemented by the library require.js.
- CommonJS – the module system created for Node.js server.
- UMD – one more module system, suggested as a universal one, compatible with AMD and CommonJS.

**What is a module?**
A module is just a file. One script is one module. Modules can load each other and use special directives ``export`` and ``import`` to interchange functionality, call functions of one module from another one:
- _export_ keyword labels variables and functions that should be accessible from outside the current module.
- _import_ allows the import of functionality from other modules.

For instance, if we have a file sayHi.js exporting a function:
```js
// 📁 sayHi.js
export function sayHi(user) {
  alert(`Hello, ${user}!`);
}
```
…Then another file may import and use it:
```js
// 📁 main.js
import {sayHi} from './sayHi.js';

alert(sayHi); // function...
sayHi('John'); // Hello, John!
```
The import directive loads the module by path ``./sayHi.js`` relative to the current file, and assigns exported function ``sayHi`` to the corresponding variable.

- As modules support special keywords and features, we must tell the browser that a script should be treated as a module, by using the attribute`` <script type="module">``

Like this:
```js
//index.html
<!doctype html>
<script type="module">
  import {sayHi} from './say.js';

  document.body.innerHTML = sayHi('John');
</script>
```

### Core module features

Always ``“use strict”``
Modules always work in ``strict`` mode. E.g. assigning to an undeclared variable will give an error.
```js
<script type="module">
  a = 5; // error
</script>
```

### Module-level scope
Each module has its own top-level scope. In other words, top-level variables and functions from a module are not seen in other scripts.
In the example below, two scripts are imported, and ``hello.js`` tries to use user variable declared in ``user.js``. It fails, because it’s a separate module

```js
//📁index.html
<!doctype html>
<script type="module" src="user.js"></script>
<script type="module" src="hello.js"></script>

// user.js
let user = "John";

//hello.js
alert(user); // throws error top level scope doesn't work here. 
```
Modules should export what they want to be accessible from outside and import what they need.
- ``user.js`` should export the user variable.
- ``hello.js`` should import it from user.js module.
In other words, with modules we use import/export instead of relying on global variables.


### Module Scope in Browser
In the browser, if we talk about HTML pages, independent top-level scope also exists for each ``<script type="module">``.

Here are two scripts on the same page, both ``type="module"``. They don’t see each other’s top-level variables:
```js
<script type="module">
  // The variable is only visible in this module script
  let user = "John";
</script>

<script type="module">
  alert(user); // Error: user is not defined
</script>
```

### Module Code 
**A module code is evaluated only the first time when imported**

If the same module is imported into multiple other modules, its code is executed only once, upon the first import. Then its exports are given to all further importers.

First, if executing a module code brings side-effects, like showing a message, then importing it multiple times will trigger it only once – the first time:
```js
// 📁 alert.js
alert("Module is evaluated!");
// Import the same module from different files

// 📁 1.js
import `./alert.js`; // Module is evaluated!

// 📁 2.js
import `./alert.js`; // (shows nothing)
``` 
The second import shows nothing, because the module has already been evaluated.

There’s a rule: top-level module code should be used for initialization, creation of module-specific internal data structures. If we need to make something callable multiple times – we should export it as a function, like we did with ``sayHi`` above.

Another Example:
Let’s say, a module exports an object:
```js
// 📁 admin.js
export let admin = {
  name: "John"
};
```
If this module is imported from multiple files, the module is only evaluated the first time, admin object is created, and then passed to all further importers.

All importers get exactly the one and only admin object:
```js
// 📁 1.js
import {admin} from './admin.js';
admin.name = "Pete";

// 📁 2.js
import {admin} from './admin.js';
alert(admin.name); // Pete

// Both 1.js and 2.js reference the same admin object
// Changes made in 1.js are visible in 2.js
```
As we can see, when 1.js changes the name property in the imported admin, then 2.js can see the new admin.name.

That’s exactly because the module is executed only once. Exports are generated, and then they are shared between importers, so if something changes the admin object, other importers will see that.

### import.meta
The object ``import.meta`` contains the information about the current module.
Its content depends on the environment. In the browser, it contains the URL of the script, or a current webpage URL if inside HTML:
```js
<script type="module">
  alert(import.meta.url); // script URL
  // for an inline script - the URL of the current HTML-page
</script>
```

### In a module, “this” is undefined
That’s kind of a minor feature.

In a module, top-level ``this`` is undefined.

Compare it to non-module scripts, where this is a global object:
```js
<script>
  alert(this); // window
</script>

<script type="module">
  alert(this); // undefined
</script>
```
### Browser-specific features
There are also several browser-specific differences of scripts with type="module" compared to regular ones.
- **Module scripts are deferred**
Module scripts are always deferred, same effect as ``defer`` attribute for both external and inline scripts.

In other words:

1. downloading external module scripts <script type="module" src="..."> doesn’t block HTML processing, they load in parallel with other resources.
2. module scripts wait until the HTML document is fully ready (even if they are tiny and load faster than HTML), and then run.
3. relative order of scripts is maintained: scripts that go first in the document, execute first.

As a side-effect, module scripts always “see” the fully loaded HTML-page, including HTML elements below them.
Example: 
```js
<script type="module">
  alert(typeof button); // object: the script can 'see' the button below
  // as modules are deferred, the script runs after the whole page is loaded
</script>

//Compare to regular script below:

<script>
  alert(typeof button); // button is undefined, the script can't see elements below
  // regular scripts run immediately, before the rest of the page is processed
</script>

<button id="button">Button</button>
```
Please note: the second script actually runs before the first! So we’ll see undefined first, and then object. That’s because modules are deferred, so we wait for the document to be processed. The regular script runs immediately, so we see its output first.

### Async works on inline scripts
For non-module scripts, the ``async`` attribute only works on external scripts. Async scripts run immediately when ready, independently of other scripts or the HTML document.

For module scripts, it works on inline scripts as well.
For example, the inline script below has ``async``, so it doesn’t wait for anything. It performs the import ``(fetches ./analytics.js)`` and runs when ready, even if the HTML document is not finished yet, or if other scripts are still pending.
```js
<!-- all dependencies are fetched (analytics.js), and the script runs -->
<!-- doesn't wait for the document or other <script> tags -->
<script async type="module">
  import {counter} from './analytics.js';

  counter.count();
</script>
```

### External Scripts
External scripts that have ``type="module"`` are different in two aspects:

1. External scripts with the same ``src`` run only once:
```js
<!-- the script my.js is fetched and executed only once -->
<script type="module" src="my.js"></script>
<script type="module" src="my.js"></script>
```
2. External scripts that are fetched from another origin (e.g. another site) require ``CORS`` headers. In other words, if a module script is fetched from another origin, the remote server must supply a header ``Access-Control-Allow-Origin`` allowing the fetch.
```js
<!-- another-site.com must supply Access-Control-Allow-Origin -->
<!-- otherwise, the script won't execute -->
<script type="module" src="http://another-site.com/their.js"></script>
```

### No “bare” modules allowed
In the browser, import must get either a relative or absolute URL. Modules without any path are called “bare” modules. Such modules are not allowed in import.

For instance, this import is invalid:
```js
import {sayHi} from 'sayHi'; // Error, "bare" module
// the module must have a path, e.g. './sayHi.js' or wherever the module is
```
Certain environments, like Node.js or bundle tools allow bare modules, without any path, as they have their own ways for finding modules and hooks to fine-tune them. But browsers do not support bare modules yet.

### Build Tools 
In real-life, browser modules are rarely used in their “raw” form. Usually, we bundle them together with a special tool such as Webpack and deploy to the production server.
One of the benefits of using bundlers – they give more control over how modules are resolved, allowing bare modules and much more, like CSS/HTML modules.

Build tools do the following:

1. Take a “main” module, the one intended to be put in ``<script type="module">`` in HTML.
2. Analyze its dependencies: imports and then imports of imports etc.
3. Build a single file with all modules (or multiple files, that’s tunable), replacing native import calls with bundler functions, so that it works. “Special” module types like HTML/CSS modules are also supported.
4. In the process, other transformations and optimizations may be applied:
- Unreachable code removed.
- Unused exports removed (“tree-shaking”).
- Development-specific statements like console and debugger removed.
- Modern, bleeding-edge JavaScript syntax may be transformed to older one with similar functionality using Babel.
- The resulting file is minified (spaces removed, variables replaced with shorter names, etc).