## Data Types
There are eight basic data types in JavaScript. 
We can put any type in a variable. For example, a variable can at one moment be a string and then store a number This is called dynamically typed language:  
```js
// no error
let message = "hello";
message = 123456; // dynamically-typed
```
Programming languages that allow such things, such as JavaScript, are called ***_dynamically typed_***, <span style="color: green"> meaning that there exist data types, but variables are not bound to any of them.</span>

 ### Numbers
 The number type represents both ``integer`` and ``floating``point numbers.
 Besides regular numbers, there are so-called “special numeric values” which also belong to this data type: `` Infinity, -Infinity and NaN``.

 ### BigInt
In JavaScript, the “number” type cannot represent integer values larger than (2^53-1) (that’s 9007199254740991), or less than -(2^53-1) for negatives. It’s a technical limitation caused by their internal representation.

``BigInt`` type was recently added to the language to represent integers of arbitrary length.
A BigInt value is created by appending ``n``to the end of an integer:
```JS
// the "n" at the end means it's a BigInt
const bigInt = 1234567890123456789012345678901234567890n;
```

- ### String
A ``string`` in JavaScript must be surrounded by quotes.
```JS
let str = "Hello";
let str2 = 'Single quotes are ok too';
let phrase = `can embed another ${str}`;
```
In JavaScript, there are 3 types of quotes.

Double quotes: "Hello".
Single quotes: 'Hello'.
Backticks: `Hello`.
Double and single quotes are “simple” quotes. There’s practically no difference between them in JavaScript.

Backticks are “extended functionality” quotes. They allow us to embed variables and expressions into a string by wrapping them in ``${…}``, for example:
```JS
let name = "John";

// embed a variable
alert( `Hello, ${name}!` ); // Hello, John!

// embed an expression
alert( `the result is ${1 + 2}` ); // the result is 3
```
- ### Boolean (logical type)
The ``boolean`` type has only two values: ```true``` and ```false```.

This type is commonly used to store yes/no values: true means “yes, correct”, and false means “no, incorrect”.

- ### The “null” value
The special ``null`` value does not belong to any of the types described above.

It forms a separate type of its own which contains only the ``null`` value:
```JS
let age = null;
```
In JavaScript, ``null`` is not a “reference to a non-existing object” or a “null pointer” like in some other languages.

It’s just a special value which represents “nothing”, “empty” or “value unknown”.

The code above states that age is unknown.

- ### The “undefined” value
The special value undefined also stands apart. It makes a type of its own, just like null.
The meaning of undefined is “value is not assigned”.

If a variable is declared, but not assigned, then its value is ``undefined``:
```JS
let age;

alert(age); // shows "undefined"
```

- ### Objects and Symbols
The object type is special.

All other types are called “primitive” because their values can contain only a single thing (be it a string or a number or whatever). In contrast, objects are used to store collections of data and more complex entities.

Being that important, objects deserve a special treatment. 

The symbol type is used to create unique identifiers for objects. 
