## Basic Operators, Maths
**Operand**  
Operands are those on which operators are applied on.  

**Unary**  
Operator which works only one operand.  
 Example 
 ```JS
 const count = 0 ;
 count++;
 ```

  - ### Maths
The following math operations are supported:

Addition +,  
Subtraction -,  
Multiplication *,  
Division /,  
Remainder %,  
Exponentiation **  -> Raises to power ``` a ** b ```

 - ### Notes 
 If any of the operand is a string then other value becomes string too while concatenating.
 ```JS
 const result = '1' + 1 ;// 11
 ```

 The binary ```+``` is the only operator that supports strings in such a way. Other arithmetic operators work only with numbers and always convert their operands to numbers.

Here’s the demo for subtraction and division:
```JS
alert( 6 - '2' ); // 4, converts '2' to a number
alert( '6' / '2' ); // 3, converts both operands to numbers
```

If ```+``` is put infront of a number it doesn't affect it but putting it before a string makes that string a number.
```JS
const stringNumber = "26"
+stringNumber; // 26
```

### Increment Decrement 
Increment/decrement can only be applied to variables. Trying to use it on a value like ``5++`` will give an error.
The operators ``++`` and ``--`` can be placed either before or after a variable.

When the operator goes after the variable, it is in “postfix form”: counter++.
The “prefix form” is when the operator goes before the variable: ++counter.

We can only see the difference between postfix and prefix form if we use the returned value of ++/--.

As we know, all operators return a value. Increment/decrement is no exception. The prefix form returns the new value while the postfix form returns the old value (prior to increment/decrement).

To see the difference, here’s an example:
```js
let counter = 1;
let a = ++counter; // (*)

alert(a); // 2
```

In the line (*), the prefix form ++counter increments counter and returns the new value, 2. So, the alert shows 2.

Now, let’s use the postfix form:
```js
let counter = 1;
let a = counter++; // (*) changed ++counter to counter++

alert(a); // 1
```

To summarize:

If the result of increment/decrement is not used, there is no difference in which form to use:
```js
let counter = 0;
counter++;
++counter;
alert( counter ); // 2, the lines above did the same
```
If we’d like to increase a value and immediately use the result of the operator, we need the prefix form:
```js
let counter = 0;
alert( ++counter ); // 1
```
If we’d like to increment a value but use its previous value, we need the postfix form:
```js
let counter = 0;
alert( counter++ ); // 0
```

