### Native Prototypes
The "prototype" property is widely used by the core of JavaScript itself. All built-in constructor functions use it.

Outputting an empty object like: 
```js
let obj = {};
alert( obj ); // "[object Object]" ?
```
As alert requires a string so it uses the method ``toString`` method from ``Object.Prototype``.
The short notation ``obj = {}`` is the same as ``obj = new Object()``, where Object is a built-in object constructor function, with its own prototype referencing a huge object with ``toString`` and other methods.

We can check if the method is called from ``Object.Prototype``. 
```js
let obj = {};

alert(obj.__proto__ === Object.prototype); // true

alert(obj.toString === obj.__proto__.toString); //true
alert(obj.toString === Object.prototype.toString); //true
```
There is no more [[Prototype]] in the chain above ``Object.prototype``.
```js
alert(Object.prototype.__proto__); // null
```

### Other-built in Prototypes

Other built-in objects such as Array, Date, Function and others also keep methods in prototypes.
For instance, when we create an array [1, 2, 3], the default ``new Array()`` constructor is used internally. So ``Array.prototype`` becomes its prototype and provides methods. That’s very memory-efficient.
By specification, all of the built-in prototypes have Object.prototype on the top. That’s why some people say that “everything inherits from objects”.
To check :
```js
let arr = [1, 2, 3];

// it inherits from Array.prototype?
alert( arr.__proto__ === Array.prototype ); // true

// then from Object.prototype?
alert( arr.__proto__.__proto__ === Object.prototype ); // true

// and null on the top.
alert( arr.__proto__.__proto__.__proto__ ); // null
```
Some methods in prototypes may overlap, for instance, Array.prototype has its own toString that lists comma-delimited elements:
```js
let arr = [1, 2, 3]
alert(arr); // 1,2,3 <-- the result of Array.prototype.toString
```
### Primitives
String, Number and Booleans are not objects but if we try to access their properties, temporary wrapper objects are created using built-in constructors String, Number and Boolean. They provide the methods and disappear.
Methods of these objects also reside in prototypes, available as String.prototype, Number.prototype and Boolean.prototype.
### Changing native prototypes

Native prototypes can be modified. For instance, if we add a method to String.prototype, it becomes available to all strings:
```js
String.prototype.show = function() {
  alert(this);
};

"BOOM!".show(); // BOOM!
```
But native prototypes should not be modified.  In modern programming, there is only one case where modifying native prototypes is approved. That’s polyfilling.

Polyfilling is a term for making a substitute for a method that exists in the JavaScript specification, but is not yet supported by a particular JavaScript engine.

If we access a string or any inbuilt value we use ``__proto__`` and for their constructors like String we use ``prototype``.

### Borrowing from Prototypes
Borrowing is When we take a method from one object and copy it into another.

For instance, if we’re making an array-like object, we may want to copy some Array methods to it.
```js
E.g.

let obj = {
  0: "Hello",
  1: "world!",
  length: 2,
};

obj.join = Array.prototype.join;

alert( obj.join(',') ); // Hello,world!
```
Another possibility is to inherit by setting obj.__proto__ to Array.prototype, so all Array methods are automatically available in obj.
But that’s impossible if obj already inherits from another object. Remember, we only can inherit from one object at a time.